The climactic act of "Age of Ultron" is full of colossal ka-booms and special effects, but it also has heft and reason and a bass-note of emotion.

Age of Ultron is all rush and sensation with little substance. But what a feeling.

Like the first one, Avengers: Age of Ultron was written and directed by Joss Whedon, among whose many virtues is an indelible, infallible touch with character, which is important because in Ultron he has to introduce them at a furious rate.

"Avengers: Age of Ultron" is supercharged and lifeless, frenetic and stone-cold dead, a barrage of action scenes that look fake, yet make you wonder if fake is the new real.

There is much to like about "The Avengers: Age of Ultron." There was much to love about "The Avengers," and therein lies the difference.

Writing and directing "Avengers: Age of Ultron," Joss Whedon proves he has a superpower of his own: mediocrity.

Lovable characters, just the right amount of humor and spectacular action make "Ultron" a worthy bridge to whatever happens next in The Avengers' universe.

Sure, this is the A Team of comic book superstars, but overextended sequences don't make them any more impressive.

Age of Ultron, then, shows what happens when an unstoppable force (Joss Whedon's imagination) meets an immovable object (the Disney/Marvel behemoth).

Joss Whedon shows his considerable gifts for multicharacter air traffic control in a massive 3-D spectacle while demonstrating reserves of insouciance.

Whedon gets the elastic physical reality of comic books, and he knows how to frame a shot as though it were a splash panel come to life... But by the fifth digital showdown, the endless CGI spectacle begins to feel a little numbing.

Entertaining as much of "Avengers 2" is, especially when it's just hanging out with the gang in between scuffles (the "Guardians of the Galaxy" lesson, learned), Whedon's picture meets expectations without exceeding them.

Thin on story, crowded with characters and padded with extraneous action. In other words, a sure hit!

Most of these characters are great fun, and there are still stories to tell. So why not do it, instead of telling and retelling the same tale, only bigger?

This movie is fine, honestly. I rather liked it.

"Avengers: Age of Ultron" is a kinetic, wicked mix of muscle and magic. Look no further if you want a world of superpowered freaks and geeks.

First, you try to understand what the hell is going on. Then you slowly realize that you will never understand what is going on. And, last, you wind up with the distinct impression that, if there was anything to understand, it wasn't worth the sweat.

Whedon takes a few wrong turns, creating a jumble when the action gets too thick. But he recovers like a pro, devising a spectacle that's epic in every sense of the word.

I walked out of the theater feeling like the survivor of an all-you-can-eat buffet.

The movie's action sequences and sequel-baiting suck up much of its oxygen, and the magnitude of battles dwarf the smaller moments.

Marvel movie die-hards will come away having found nuggets of pleasure, but those who complain about superhero sagas will find plenty to support their arguments here.

Avengers: Age of Ultron succeeds in the top priority of creating a worthy opponent for its superheroes and giving the latter a few new things to do, but this time the action scenes don't always measure up ...

It has a definite mid-season feel to it, telling a compelling but never game-changing story while laying the foundations for the epic, two-part Infinity War due in 2018.

If this is what the apotheosis of branded, big-studio entertainment has come to look like in 2015, we could be doing much worse. Unlike its title character, "Age of Ultron" most definitely has soul.

Iron Man 3 has good things in it, enough to please the series' fans -- and yet too many drawbacks to win many converts.

The trouble is that, as the plot quickens, any cleverness withdraws, to make way for the firecrackers of the climax. That is not Black's forte, and his movie duly slumps into a mess.

Shane Black excels at writing witty, self-referential, pop-infused banter, and there is no actor working today who is better suited to delivering it than Robert Downey Jr.

Iron Man 3 feels like an exploitative mulching of present-day anxieties. The script is ambitious but not wise enough to be rightfully cathartic. It's more Cuisinart than art.

The action, directed by Shane Black, ranges from passable to interminable.

Black is good at giving his heroes a morbid, self-hating edge and even better at coming up with hateable villains.

After a while, the steady diet of tongue-in-cheek starts to taste monotonous as day-old gum.

Just like he does with those crummy Sherlock Holmes movies, Downey elevates this rather flimsy material with his sheer presence.

It would be just a special-effects-and-hardware extravaganza, with a dead-end script full of wrong turns, were it not for Robert Downey Jr. and a game and witty cast.

By even posing questions of identity, the film creates the kind of jeopardy we can believe in, and for a superhero movie, that is an accomplishment in and of itself.

Snappy dialogue, momentarily startling plot twists and lots of stuff blowing up.

From its anxious protagonist and the battered metal sheaths he dons to save the world to the clattering, fiery mayhem that ensues with metronomic predictability, Iron Man 3 is less a movie than a final war whoop let loose before utter exhaustion sets in.

The third iteration of a franchise that began so well becomes a hollow hymn to martial gadgetry. The suits and story clank in unison.

It's a confidently tongue-in-cheek piece of blockbuster engineering, sweetly calibrated to Downey's cavalier appeal and to Kingsley's oddball interjections.

The action plays like a video game because, well, it may as well be.

[Black] strikes a tone of pseudo-edgy frat-boy black comedy that's so retro it's almost charming.

The movie is shrewd enough to skitter along so frenetically that nothing, not even tonal contradiction, can stick.

Downey is in fine comic form, especially when he's sparring with young Simpkins, who thankfully throttles back on the precociousness.

But for all the clanking armies of iron knights on display to dazzle the eager kid in each of us, this summer epic rings hollow. There's no one home inside the suit.

For the second year in a row, Marvel is starting the summer off with a bang. Let the blockbusters begin, and let's see if they can top this.

Iron Man 3 manages to rise above its naked ambitions thanks to ... Robert Downey Jr.'s sly charm ... and Ben Kingsley's too-short and ... hilarious turn as the villainous Mandarin, a clever update on the comic-book character created in the '60s.

This installment actually flirts with satire, sending its hero-in-a-can on a vengeful mission against a mad, bearded jihadist before yanking the rug out from under the neocon story line. There are some good laughs as well.

It's lightweight but slow, padded with cheap jokes to disguise how hollow it is.

The "Iron Man" films turned Mr. Downey into a huge star, but the role has gradually, maybe inexorably, swallowed him.

It balances massive, show-offy effects with hip knowingness and quirky human touches. It's a comic-book world seen not from the viewpoint of a fanboy but a wiseguy adult earthling.

The rambunctious Iron Man 3 is a briskly paced thrill ride until about 90 minutes in, when the excitement wanes. A few late-breaking surprises re-invigorate the tale, however.

"Iron Man 3" is definitely a big perk-up from the almost-but-not-quite-listless "Iron Man 2"; maybe hanging out with the Avengers was a tonic for him.

The level of acting, at one time viewed as negligible in a superhero movie, is top-notch and no one seems to be mailing it in.

Unfortunately, [its] sharp-eyed domestic comedy is dwarfed by the far less well-written supervillain crime plot that surrounds it.

It sharply fuses the humor and heart of the earlier films with a satisfyingly heavy-metal strength - and a darkness that's more than earned.

It's hard not to wish Downey were sparring with his costumed comrades again, instead of trading barbs with the far-less-colorful cast members-old and new-of this busy, sporadically diverting sequel.

'Iron Man 3 is one of the best entries in this modern golden age of superhero movies.

Downey is as funny as ever, if not more so. He ensures that Iron Man 3 is a solid installment in the franchise, and helps to make it seem, at least for a time, that it might be something more.

It's not without its payoffs; I enjoyed a lot of it. But overall last year's Avengers delivered the bombastic goods more efficiently than this year's Marvel.

The best scenes are when Stark just cuts impatiently through the claptrap.

Iron Man 3 is an ominously exciting, shoot-the-works comic-book spectacular.

It's decent popcorn entertainment -- just fine for the summertime, but nothing more than that.

The usual winks and snarks from Tony Stark, but this edition feels fresher and funnier, thanks to writer- director Shane Black.

Besides rehabbing a hero who overcomes anxiety to save the world and defeat the terror-industrial complex by the simple matter of cloning his body armor, the movie proves that there's still intelligent life on Planet Marvel.

The heavy metal action could never sink the irrepressible Downey, but it weighs down the otherwise light joy of ''Iron Man 3.''

The energy bleeds out of the film; it's as if the producers were scared the crowd would riot over not enough digital fakeness.

There's so much dumb stuff in "Iron Man 3" that I expected the credits to say, "Written and directed by Thor."

If you're the sort of viewer for whom Black's strengths more than make up for his weaknesses, the best bits of Iron Man 3 will make the lesser stuff worth forgiving -- or at least worth enduring.

The big problems with Iron Man 3 are less specific to the movie itself than they are characteristic of the hypermalaise that's infected so many current mega-blockbusters.

Far too much of this movie - like Tony's new toys - is running on remote control.

Either IM3 is a Marvel movie in the guise of a Shane Black action-comedy or the other way around. Regardless, it's an awful lot of fun.

Black largely acquits himself well, keeping the pace brisk, deploying a couple of modest surprises and staging a few undeniably impressive, super-sized setpieces.

Downey is at his superhero genius best here, rattling off dialogue both clever and boilerplate with non-repetitive aplomb.

It's undeniably entertaining - and worth seeing for Kingsley alone - with the misfires never fully overshadowing the moments of glory.

Christliness has always been an element of the Superman myth. But this film's near literal insistence upon it becomes absurd since director Zack Snyder and screenwriter David S. Goyer don't dramatize the analogy, they presume it.

The movie consists of endless declamation, endless violence.

There's very little humor or joy in this Superman story.

There's plenty to like in Snyder's hectic, rowdy film. But by the time we reach the bludgeoning excesses of the last half-hour it's hard to shake the sense that this was an opportunity at least partially missed.

Cavill broods handsomely as Superman, but this reboot skimps on fun and romance.

The movie delivers on the promise of its title and then some.

Man of Steel packs quite a wallop. A few too many wallops, as it turns out.

The chief problem here is one of rhythm and balance in the storytelling and directing. The movie swings between destructive overstatement and flat-footed homilies.

It all gets exhaustingly bombastic although, sequence by sequence, Man of Steel is something worth seeing.

The mechanical storytelling swamps a first-rate cast.

For now, audiences can only speculate as to the hidden depths of Cavill, who in Zack Snyder's busy, bombastic creation myth is reduced to little more than a joyless cipher or dazzling physical specimen.

Snyder provides an elegantly illuminated retelling of the origin story of that most saintly of superheroes, Superman.

You get the feeling [Snyder] would rather have chucked the entire back story, not to mention the front story, and just delivered up nonstop bashing. Which he sort of does anyway.

By the end, Man of Steel has mutated into just another superhero action movie, with explosions galore and city buildings toppling like so many Legos. Lather, rinse, repeat. That's too bad because ... Man of Steel has so much going for it.

Man of Steel's violence doesn't escalate; it simply, tediously, iterates. We keep waiting to thrill, to exult, to cheer our hero on. When the lights come up, we're still waiting.

For those who crave cinematic mayhem, Man of Steel is right up your alley (and it will make a ton of money).

Man of Steel is a bumpy ride for sure. But there's no way to stay blind to its wonders.

What seals the movie's doom ... is its surrender to the lower power of coarsegrained action and computer-generated images of inexplicable banality.

Man of Steel is just the same old same old.

"Man of Steel" doesn't do quite as much damage to the 75-year-old hero, but next time out I hope his lighter spirits are allowed to soar.

Man of Steel starts feeling like just another generic superhero movie - the exact opposite to the radical and unique stamp Nolan placed on the Dark Knight trilogy

Every opportunity for humor, compassion or plausible responses to otherworldly phenomena is buried beneath product placements and CGI special effects.

If Man of Steel is Snyder at his most conventional, he's still more inspired and innovative than his competition.

[Nolan and Goyer's] screenplay is a big improvement over the previous one, mainly because they've created a satisfying arc between the hero's genesis story and the big battle at the end.

Mr. Snyder isn't capable of mythmaking, but in his sometimes poetic, sometimes crude way, he has given Superman a new lease on franchise life by affirming that this most American hero is also an alien yearning to breathe free.

[It] is thoughtfully crafted and occasionally breathtaking; what it isn't, unfortunately, is much fun.

"Man of Steel" is second-tier and third-generation Chris Nolan-flavored neo-superhero material.

If you like your summer-movie explosions huge, "Man of Steel" delivers. But it seems as if it might have delivered even more than a glorious noise.

Even though some of the attempts at gravitas don't work, the movie does make you believe that a flying man in tights is a thing of scary awe.

The action is plentiful and thumping; Marvel-size thrills await you and the generations of kids who still believe in Superman.

[Cavill is] a superb choice for someone who needs to convincingly convey innate modesty, occasional confusion and eventual strength.

Henry Cavill has the strapping good looks of the comic icon, and humanity to match his superheroism.

By effectively denying Superman his defining traits-his complex relationships to duty and humanity-the movie robs the character of any depth or agency.

The movie isn't dead on arrival, like Snyder's over-reverent Watchmen. But it's pleasure-free.

"Man of Steel" has a scope that's hard to resist, but what's missing is a sense of lightness, of pop joy.

Cavill looks great in the key outfit. Maybe that's enough.

Despite an obscene budget that could have made a giant stride in the cure for cancer, there isn't much originality, and the whole endeavor appears to be the work of grown men who never outgrew puberty.

The casting is impeccable, beginning with Cavill as an uncommonly brooding but refreshingly deep Superman. The script doesn't give him much to say, but it doesn't need to.

Mostly, the minutes stretch into great expanses of blahness, much of them filled with Transformers-grade skyscraper snapping and bloodless catastrophe.

Never has a race to save the fate of humankind seemed so tedious.

The result is a film that, while relentlessly grim and badly in need of humor, manages to be a smart, nuanced take on the Superman mythology.

"Man of Steel" mostly delivers. And credit for that goes to its director.

Despite some true-blue juice, "Man of Steel" has flaws it can't overcome.

'Man of Steel' is punchy, engaging and fun, even if it slips into a final 45 minutes of explosions and fights during which reason starts to vanish and the science gets muddy.

There's almost a story here. And the actors, including the picture's quietly dazzling star, Henry Cavill, do their damnedest to draw it out.

The movie can't decide if it wants to be a particularly thoughtful brand of superhero saga or a deafeningly generic summer action movie. So it ends up being both, to the detriment of it and us.

[Snyder] does a highly respectable, and sometimes inspired job of retooling the basic Superman mythology in "Man of Steel.''

The gravity that cloaks ''Man of Steel'' is merely an en vogue costume.

Zack Snyder's huge, backstory-heavy extravaganza is a rehab job that perhaps didn't cry out to be done but proves so overwhelmingly insistent in its size and strength that it's hard not to give in.

The ambition to make a grittier kind of Superman pic is certainly admirable, but much of what Snyder and Goyer set out to fix wasn't really broken in the first place.

Just as the plot threatens to run out of gas, Lin rescues the film with a spate of vastly ridiculous and therefore enjoyable set-pieces, most of which involve means of conveyance designed to make the cars look puny.

Exists purely to showcase how idiotically over-the-top action sequences can become when annoyances like gravity are tossed to the side.

Some of the action sequences are insane. No, really. Absurd, impossible, physics defying, triage-required stuff. No matter. That's the foolish rush of a franchise that must go faster and faster and furiouser and furiouser.

How you feel about "Fast & Furious 6" is a matter of perspective.

Ludicrous, but undeniably fun and surprisingly affectionate, this is really all you could ask of a car crash movie, and more.

Furious Six continues on in the same vein as its predecessor, and may just be my favorite of the lot.

For their own part, Vin Diesel and the "F&F" handlers seem eager to assert how they've molded a series of installments into, yep, a saga, complete with expansive, twisty continuity.

That the movie is so indifferently written shouldn't really be a surprise. The dialogue is just there to mark time between the set pieces, and it's nice to report that Lin has outdone himself in that department.

Fast & Furious 6 is much like the other Fast & Furious films. Which is to say it does its thing pretty well.

There's a Road Runneresque sense of madness that's undeniably infectious. If only it was played off characters who had some sense of reality, who weren't such obvious constructions, and who spoke fewer leaden lines.

It pretty much goes without saying that the script by Chris Morgan, who penned most of the previous installments, is achingly stupid and beyond ludicrous.

[The action is] glorious while it lasts, but then the film goes back to figuring out how to keep its oversized vessel from taking on water. And that's more hard work than it's worth.

A satisfying thrill ride, at least on a par with the earlier installments.

If Fast & Furious 6 were any dumber, the script would have been written in crayon ... [But] in terms of sheer action adrenaline, it may be the best film of the franchise.

A comedown from the high of "Fast Five," but the physics-be-damned stuntwork and girl-on-girl beatdowns keep this series the guiltiest of pleasures.

It's a ripsnorting carmageddon that stylizes automotive annihilation the way John Woo used to choreograph death and destruction with guns and explosions.

Sometimes Fast & Furious 6 is engrossing, sometimes absurd, and some of the action is so outlandish it makes the audience laugh. But whatever it is, it's always some variety of fun.

Happily, amid all the noise, the races -- there's a terrific one through the streets of downtown London -- the crashes and the outlandish stunts, there is some humor, and it's very welcome.

[Director Justin Lin] manages to imbue the material with Hawksian notions of masculinity, group dynamics, and moral authority even as he preserves the franchise's multicultural milieu and gleefully exaggerated action sequences.

Perhaps the most annoying thing about the movie: The final scene sets up yet another sequel.

Lin understands this track inside and out, backwards and forwards - four directions out of countless others in which he spins us.

The plot and dialogue are still stilted and stupid, but that only proves that Justin Lin, who has directed the last four F & Fs, has his priorities straight.

'Fast and Furious 6' is the fastest, funniest and most outlandishly entertaining chapter yet. I'm not kidding, I kinda loved this insanely stupid movie.

Nothing classic here, except the vehicles. But if you're looking for revved-up cars, trucks, tanks and tunnel racing, F&F6 is King Kong on wheels.

True, the movie doesn't know when or how to put the brakes on. It does, however, understand precisely what it is.

The whole thing becomes no different than a six-year-old knocking his toys together and making noises.

It's dumb fun -- nothing more, nothing less.

Sustains its joyful, unpretentious ridiculousness so perfectly that I secretly hoped the "6" meant "hours long"...

Let's just cut to another car chase, OK? That's what this franchise knows how to do, and if that's the kind of popcorn fun you're looking for, "F&F 6" has the goods.

Here's a movie that could easily have been dialogue-free. And probably would have been better for it.

A borderline ridiculous, over-the-top demolition derby that also happens to be a perfectly constructed low-IQ blast.

For my money, "Furious 6'' is more fun than "Skyfall''' and a lot more fun than the deadly dull "Star Trek Into Darkness,'' both of which ask you to take their silly plots way too seriously.

Furious 6 is even cooler and more aerodynamically delirious than its predecessor, if such a thing is even theoretically possible.

Most of the stunts are digital and the pleasures are video-game-stupid.

Lin and his team do an extraordinary job of staging the ever-escalating action sequences, up to a jaw-on-the-floor finale involving various four-wheel vehicles in and around a cargo plane that's trying to take off.

Everyone involved at last seems to understand that the mode here is comic. Previous entries suffered from self-important glumness that gummed up the fun whenever the cars weren't racing.

Has something for everyone, so long as everyone wants their action supercharged.

With its puerile dialogue, daft performances, flat comic repartee and ear-rupturingly loud sound levels, the experience of watching 'Fast & Furious 6' is like listening to death metal pour out of 500-watt speakers while being strapped to a pneumatic drill.

This new entry will only add mightily to the good fortunes of Universal's biggest franchise; no matter how silly and outlandish the action gets -- and it does become ridiculous -- it also delivers the goods its audience expects.

Faithful fans and passersby alike should be more than pleased by this superior piece of classical action craftsmanship.

Most of the logic has leached away from this movie, and with it half of the fun.

Happily, there's a good deal of fun if you like things crashing violently into each other and out of warp-drive at regular intervals.

For all its chasing and falling and fighting-and the movie supplies a great deal of each-Star Trek Into Darkness is at its best when the Enterprise crew are merely bickering and bantering among themselves: less space opera than soap opera.

The conceptual sci-fi of the original series is nowhere to be found, though you might enjoy watching the skinny young actors approximate their counterparts from the 60s; Chris Pine is especially good as Captain Kirk.

While the action is often electric, it's the relationships that matter. That, and a lippy regard for a cultural legacy.

The film is, for whatever else it might be, one of the funniest of the Star Trek entries.

Star Trek Into Darkness is a step forward from Abrams' initial foray into this universe in the 2009 movie.

For two movies in a row now -- and possibly even more in the second than the first -- [Abrams has] caught some of the spark of the first Star Trek without either mimicking or desecrating the original.

The result is a wild piece of entertainment that manages to be about something. Beam yourself up for this one.

J.J. Abrams's Star Trek Into Darkness, the sequel to his prequel, delivers the goods, even if some of the goods are less than fresh.

Rip-roaring set-pieces aside, the biggest pleasure here is still the yin-yang chemistry between Kirk and Spock, even as the writers sand down the barbed edges of the characters' interactions.

Abrams boldly goes into Star Trek Into Darkness, and crushes it again. It's more fun and more intense, without giving less to the characters.

This is sufficiently rousing and entertaining that it should please a majority of movie-goers whether they're confessed Trek fans or not.

I thought it was really fun, an inventive, surprising rethinking of some of "Star Trek's" most hallowed inventions, but I'm not wedded to the source material as gospel. Trekkies will think it's a desecration. So, pick your side.

Star Trek Into Darkness offers [a] qualified satisfaction, which, especially after the second half, is akin to the relief of surviving a long beating.

Into Darkness is a sleek, thrilling epic that's also a triumphantly witty popcorn morality play. It's everything you could want in a Star Trek movie.

What this movie does with a not-unfamiliar-to-some story is pretty clever, and the incarnation of a classic villain by British cheekbone virtuoso Benedict Cumberbatch is vivid and engaging.

It's a great deal of brash fun, and it should satisfy all those basic Trekkie cravings.

For all its reckoning with mass destruction, this franchise's vision of a future Earth remains optimistic. The film mixes the iconically familiar with the futuristic.

Star Trek Into Darkness banishes, at least for the moment, the lugubrious mood and sepulchral look that too many comic-book movies mistake for sophistication. All hail an action film that isn't ashamed to have fun and to be seen doing it.

Like its entertaining predecessor, "Star Trek Into Darkness" offers much of what the fans expect and not much of what they don't. This character-driven vehicle is a supercharged example of cinematic craftsmanship.

There's absolutely nothing wrong with "Star Trek Into Darkness" -- once you understand it as a generic comic-book-style summer flick faintly inspired by some half-forgotten boomer culture thing.

J.J. Abrams' second Star Trek movie is chock-full of goodies, but by the last quarter the action is so inflated and relentless that it's like an anvil chorus played on your head.

Maybe it is too late to lament the militarization of Star Trek, but in his pursuit of blockbuster currency, Mr. Abrams has sacrificed a lot of its idiosyncrasy and, worse, the large-spirited humanism that sustained it.

You barely get a chance to catch a breath as this saga takes off like a starship and just keeps going, from its Indiana Jones-style opening to its cosmos-rattling finale. And all in 3D, no less.

Abrams' sophomore effort picks its references well, builds on the relationships established in the original series (and tweaked in the last movie) and keeps the quips and battles coming. Warp speed, Captain.

"Star Trek Into Darkness" is ridiculously exciting. Which is to say it's so exciting it's ridiculous. But in a good way.

Darkness is a cheery combo of classic catchphrases and young Hollywood heat ...

Star Trek Into Darkness may not go boldly back to the archives, but it serves up an exhilarating spectacle, with noteworthy moments of intimacy.

Abrams gets considerable help from a cast who go after their roles with great zest.

The new film works. It's rousing. The human element, and the Vulcan element, to say nothing of various other species, are present, accounted for and taken seriously enough to matter.

A solid but unspectacular effort that sets the stage for the next chapters.

The movie delivers the goods on both narrative and razzle-dazzle action levels.

There's something especially disconcerting about Into Darkness's hollowness, given the visibly provocative content that, in true Trek fashion, is meant to put us in mind of our precarious present.

An excessively derivative what-if rehash of themes and interactions that came before, most of the characters lesser copies and even caricatures of the originals.

The movie presses forward with a high-spirited wit and sense of purpose that makes other action extravaganzas look backward.

A note-perfect blend of escapist fun and thought-provoking commentary, ensemble drama, comic relief, daredevil action and senses-shattering spectacle.

The action is exhilarating, the visual effects spectacular - and spectacularly realized.

One of the general strengths of Star Trek Into Darkness, in fact, is the feeling of high stakes and genuine threat, which is exceedingly hard to pull off in any long-running franchise.

"Into Darkness" is fast and fun, zipping along on all thrusters while everyone on the bridge settles comfortably into an agreeably lighthearted vibe (and into ever-slimmer outfits).

[Provides] bustling fun equal to its modest ambitions ...

A stunningly nervy sequel that vaporizes any worries that Abrams' terrific 2009 reboot was a fluke.

The only darkness here - besides the dingy-looking images dimmed by 3-D glasses - is the murky plot, which is as silly as it is arbitrary.

You could spend the rest of the summer waiting for a better popcorn movie. But that would be highly illogical.

A glorious nostalgia trip, continuing the Star Trek reboot in style through a cunning meld of the best of 1980s action sci-fi with high-end 2013 glossiness.

Abrams has a gift for making us feel as if Star Trek Into Darkness vaulted from our own Trek-ish daydreams.

"Into Darkness" may not boldly go where no "Trek" adventure has gone before, but getting there is such a well-crafted, immensely pleasurable ride that it would be positively Vulcan to nitpick.

The production gives the impression of a massive machine cranked up for two hours of full output; it efficiently delivers what it's built to do, but without style or personality.

A stop-gap tale that's modest, fun and briefly amusing rather than one that breaks new ground or offers hugely memorable set pieces.

[A] lousy, ugly-looking, intensely illogical movie.

As both thrilling spectacle and escapist summer entertainment, World War Z is enormously effective, with Brad Pitt at the center hopscotching the globe in search of the origin of a zombie apocalypse.

Pitt conducts himself manfully throughout the proceedings -- he is never less than believable while facing off against this pandemic -- but if I never see another zombie in the movies, I will not feel deprived.

If you need proof that sometimes more can be less, here you go.

As compelling as Pitt is at reflecting the world's pain through Lane's eyes, the movie treats him too often as if he truly is the only one with loved ones to lose or a world to save.

World War Z hits the blockbuster equivalent of a delicate balance: gargantuan spectacle with a human touch.

World War Z opens with an undeniable bang. But if this is the way the world ends, we're going out with a whimper.

Despite some conventional passages and a soft ending, Forster and Brad Pitt, who is a producer of the film as well as its star, pulled the picture together. They also managed to reawaken in a large-scale movie the experience of shock.

Director Marc Forster can't do much with the stale human story, in which Pitt leaves his frightened wife and daughters on an aircraft carrier to await his return.

Z has guts and energy. It starts its mayhem early and it never lets up.

World War Z is a perfectly decent thriller, the smartest and most sober action film so far this summer and a grown-up addition to the zombie canon.

Whatever problems World War Z encountered in its making, the movie has made it to theaters not dead on arrival, but walking dead, running dead, and - when it's really working - swarming dead.

The result is a movie that, while no classic, can be credited with giving the audience something a bit more substantive than the usual disposable summer fare.

Against considerable odds, the ability and professionalism of the cast and crew have carried the day.

[It] does not try to extend the boundaries of commercial entertainment but does what it can to find interesting ways to pass the time within them.

Given how efficiently World War Z has delivered jolts and screams over the course of its sleek 116-minute running time, it's easy to forgive [its] rushed and slightly muted finale.

This enjoyable shambles of a sci-fi thriller, directed by Marc Forster in impressive 3-D, stands on its own as a powerful vision of planetary chaos.

A relentless horror thriller that serves up a chilling vision of a planet in the throes of apocalypse ...

A letdown with a strange mixture of epic apocalyptic material and generic zombie stuff.

The choreography is thought out, and the use of 3-D is at least good enough that I embarrassed myself, leaping in my seat to get out of the way of a zombie that was falling on me.

A fun, if not particularly emotionally engaging, thrill ride ... Unlike the best in the zombie genre, the movie doesn't tap deep into the existential dread of succumbing to mob bloodlust and the fear of the crowd.

A smart, entertaining zombie flick that's slightly cleverer and classier than most.

World War Z is still as smart, shifty and scary as a starving zombie ready to chow down on you, baby, you.

The whole movie seems in many ways like a fortunate accident. But there's no doubting the deliberate wisdom of making a star of Pitt's talent and stature the lead.

Forster's action scenes are fairly effective, if necessarily far-fetched, and his bouncy, race-track zombies are an interesting hybrid.

World War Z bucks the current trend in summer blockbusters by feeling weirdly understuffed. It's an episodic adventure without enough episodes.

A genuine nail-biter.

[It] has a fragmentary feel, with its novel multipart style eventually turning a bit jarring.

The surprise of the absorbing, frightening "World War Z" is that what sounds ridiculous on paper turns out be a gripper on the screen.

Entertaining as hell.

Essentially, it boils down to familiar fare: a well-paced, entertaining, conventional action thriller where a reluctant hero saves the day.

Pretty much what you'd want in a summer blockbuster: scary but not-too-gross zombies, a journey to exotic locales, a few excellent action scenes, and did we mention Pitt?

[It] may be the most entertaining and accomplished zombie thriller since George A. Romero's Dawn of the Dead ...

Fast, furious and ferocious, "World War Z" proves there's plenty of bite left in zombie cinema.

Whatever caused all the production angst on this film I don't know, but you never get the feeling that Forster loses control of the images, and "World War Z" contains several of the most effective big-canvas action sequences in recent history.

Even as big-budget blockbusters go, this is a hard movie to connect with.

The stakes are high and the excitement's there and the results ... are messy but fairly entertaining.

Other than the CGI eye candy, which is intense, there is little in the way of layers and complexity to this portrait of pandemonium.

[It] has a relatively plausible perspective on mass catastrophe. It deserves comparisons to Steven Soderbergh's brainy "Contagion."

Robustly mounted, magnificently photographed and bone-crunchingly terrifying, World War Z towers above every other alleged summer blockbuster. It's the real deal.

It's just a jumped-up midnight movie that thinks "stuff jumping out at you and making loud noises" equals horror and "perfect human being impervious to everything" equals hero.

What's missing is a sense of loss - the horror and grief that should be etched on the faces of the living.

The movie essentially becomes little more than cool set pieces ... jammed together and interspersed with underdeveloped family-strife scenes.

Here's the oddest element in this tale of Hollywood fine-tuning run rampant: the movie is pretty good -- the summer's most urgent, highest-I.Q. action picture.

It's an anemic actioner that fosters excitement like dead limbs as it lumbers toward a conclusion.

For all its effectiveness at portraying the horror of possible human extinction, the film's actual humans are so soulless that this could just as well be the movie version of the video game Plants vs. Zombies.

Forster moves the action forward deftly scene by scene, yet the movie ends up feeling sprawling and empty, a "zombies invaded the world and all I got was a lousy T-shirt" enterprise.

As I understand it, fidelity to Max Brooks' novel has been scant at best, but neither that nor countless post-production woes prevent Paramount's adaptation from serving as an efficient and effectively exciting globe-spanning zombie thriller.

This is a surprisingly smart, gripping and imaginative addition to the zombie-movie canon.

Brad Pitt delivers a capable performance in an immersive apocalyptic spectacle about a global zombie uprising.

McCarthy's an actress who needs a foil, and for now Bullock is more than good enough. I just wish these two had found each other 10 years ago.

Director Paul Feig, whose Bridesmaids upended notions of what a raunchy ensemble comedy could be, does it again here with another genre.

If you've never seen the point of Sandra Bullock, watch this.

There are only two reasons to see The Heat. But they are formidable reasons, and they go by the names of Sandra Bullock and Melissa McCarthy.

If you've never seen Sandra Bullock blow a peanut shell out of her nose, and you'd like to, The Heat is your movie.

The many formulas never mesh, and some formidable actors stumble trying to keep pace with its out-of-synch meters.

If this were funny, The Heat would add up to your average buddy-cop comedy. Except that it's not funny, at least not very and not often.

There's an edgy but rewarding chemistry between Bullock and McCarthy that makes me wish they were attached to a less foul-tasting premise.

Laughter can be magical. It can also be crass. In the formidable person of Melissa McCarthy it is typically both. And no director seems to know what to do with that tension quite like Paul Feig.

It's not really such a great achievement to have women cops in the movies acting as boorish and rowdy as their male counterparts.

... a rapid-fire script and the inspired pairing of Bullock and McCarthy make 'The Heat' one of the funniest films of the year so far.

The Heat come, they conquer, and they leave you laughing.

Bullock has played this role so many times you wonder why she's bothering. And while McCarthy can be brilliant in small doses, her foul-mouthed tough gal bit wears thin quickly.

[Feig] clearly enjoys the spectacle of women behaving badly, and gives his stars - and particularly McCarthy - plenty of room and improv time to knock back shots, bust a move and beat up men until they squeal like little girls.

Give these ladies a genuinely smart, funny script -- and give McCarthy more to play than what has become a tiresome tomboy shtick -- and there's no telling what liberated heights they can reach.

It's disappointing that "The Heat" doesn't do more than take an established film template - in this case, the buddy-cop flick - throw in a Tarantino-size helping of F-bombs, cast a couple of women and call it a day.

It's a slob comedy that goes with crippling speed from smart to dumb and then from dumber to dumbest.

Bullock specializes in awkward and uptight, McCarthy in aggressive and unfiltered. "The Heat" makes the most of those differences.

The Heat is the best female buddy-cop movie since, well, ever.

The cookie-cutter plot might have worked if the jokes were good.

One wonders ... what the future holds for Ms. McCarthy's career if every new film is going to exploit her more shamelessly than the previous one.

[The stars] deserve a much stronger showcase than this Laurel & Hardy Go Policin' vehicle.

Bullock can do a double-takes better than any actress working today, and boy, does force-of-nature McCarthy give her plenty to work with.

McCarthy owns this movie, but nearly everyone in it is hilarious.

The Heat is fresher than a lot of the male-centric movies it takes off from, because there's little about aggressive guy banter that hasn't been worn to the ground by Hollywood.

Employs any and all means necessary to get at least a chuckle out of most scenes in the nearly two-hour running time.

The Heat is kind of a mess, but it's a funny mess.

From the moment she barrels onto the scene like a cannonball of crudity, McCarthy makes it clear that this movie is hers to make or break. And she knocks it right out of Fenway Park ...

"The Heat" has been engineered to deliver the laughs, and the result certainly does, despite coming alarmingly near to botching the procedural elements along the way.

A crude, low-brow audience-pleaser that will hit the funny bones of both performers' fan bases ...

"The Heat" is a good movie and a successful action comedy, and it arrives just in time for Melissa McCarthy... (it) is something of a formula comedy, but it's inspired, too - and the inspiration is in the combining of these two actresses.

There probably won't be a funnier movie this year that features female bonding, drunken dancing, grenade launchers and a seriously botched emergency tracheotomy.

The volatile chemistry between Ms. McCarthy and Ms. Bullock is something to behold, and carries "The Heat" through its lazy conception and slapdash execution.

With so few women afforded the opportunity to steer the course of a movie - any movie, on screen or off - even a formulaic vehicle such as "The Heat" arrives as a surprise and a relief.

"The Heat" would be a fairly ordinary entry in the female buddy cop genre except ... there is no genre yet. Happily, Melissa McCarthy may single-handedly change that.

It's a buddy-cop comedy that deserves to share a locker room with "The Other Guys" and "21 Jump Street."

If you're going to make a dopey, bawdy, foul-mouthed, predictable lady-buddy-cop movie, you might as well make it funny.

There's a discussion to be had about why this is the only major movie this summer with two women in the lead roles - but it's hard to have a serious discussion when you're laughing.

An unevenly matched buddy-cop comedy that amounts to a feature-length showcase for Melissa McCarthy riffing.

It's a relief to come across a blockbuster that finds a location and stays there, rather than hopping desperately from one place to the next ...

Getting [Wolverine] to the movie's above-average finale required three writers - Christopher McQuarrie, Mark Bomback, and Scott Frank - to pad the plot.

It restores the tarnished lustre to this most fan-beloved of Marvel characters by doing precisely what Chris Claremont and Frank Miller's near-sacred 1982 run did: It pumps some feeling into the guy along with his muscles and steel talons.

Director James Mangold's film features some breathtakingly suspenseful action sequences, exquisite production and costume design and colorful characters, some of whom register more powerfully than others.

Too quickly the random fights pile up -- so many yakuza thugs who forgot to wear chain mail that morning -- and you yearn for the film that might have been.

Mangold front-loads the action, but near the end there's a first-rate fight atop a bullet train between Wolverine/Logan and some especially pesky ninjas. It puts the train fights in the recent The Lone Ranger to shame.

Just as comic-book movie fatigue was starting to set in, along comes The Wolverine to revive a moribund summer of superheroes.

The idea of Wolverine fighting off waves of yakuza and ninjas amid shoji screens is tantalizing, but Mangold bungles the staging and cuts so fast that you can't ever savor their silhouettes.

It's a credit to the production team that these elements somehow work, with the movie at its best as a superhero/Asian crime drama mash-up.

Although The Wolverine eventually falls back on a comic-book formula and CG effects (the climactic face-off between Logan and a giant silver warriorlike thing is totally generic), Mangold and his team find time to explore more nuanced realms ...

This is a serious, sometimes dark and deliberately paced story.

A handful of bold ideas brought down by the need to regress to a blander, more box-office-friendly middle ground.

The Wolverine represents a strain of faux gravitas that squeezes nearly all the fun out of blockbuster moviemaking. Here we have multimillion-dollar proof that slow and unsure can be just as dull as hyperkinetic chaos.

A refreshing summer cocktail of action-movie staples, The Wolverine combines the bracingly adult flavor of everyone's favorite mutant antihero with the fizzy effervescence of several mixers from the cabinet of Japanese genre cinema.

It has a more absorbing story and intriguing sensibility than Iron Man 3 or Man of Steel, and even when its action falters, this film is more original and exotic.

"The Wolverine" is an erratic affair, more lumbering than compelling, an ambitious film with its share of effective moments that stubbornly refuses to catch fire.

Instead of expounding a tedious origin story or staging an epic battle for apocalyptic stakes, "The Wolverine" focuses on a specific and self-contained adventure in a richly imagined place.

Like most superhero films, "The Wolverine" depends mostly on sheer mechanics -- both in front of and behind the camera -- and on that level it's a resounding success.

The film is a misconceived misfire, over-solemn for its first two acts and overstuffed with BLAM! POW! TEDIUM! at the climax.

A movie so unspectacular and meaningless it might be mistaken for an old episode of "The Incredible Hulk."

It may be a streamlined, 21st-century take on the Frankenstein story, but it's not an improvement; for a 3D adventure, this noisy action fantasy falls as flat as cardboard.

Hugh Jackman, in his sixth time up as Wolverine, still has the juice. This pissed-off man of Adamantium claws is stalking new ground (Japan), and his fight with yakuza on top of Tokyo's speeding bullet train is a wowser.

Somewhere along the line somebody must have had a crazy idea, that The Wolverine required a decent script, and shouldn't rely only on action, audience goodwill and the sight of Hugh Jackman with his shirt off. The team delivers with this one.

Finally - a superhero movie that doesn't feel like every other superhero movie.

"The Wolverine" won't change anybody's mind about the character, or about what Jackman can do with it. It's simply a more focused scenario than usual, full of violence done up with a little more coherence and visceral impact than usual.

Hugh Jackman doesn't sing in The Wolverine.

Taken on its own terms "The Wolverine" is the cleanest, least pretentious and most satisfying superhero movie of the summer.

A Wolverine tale that's more loaded with psychological questions (his immortality is seen as a curse) and makes the haunted character more interesting.

Too many ninjas, too few mutants.

"The Wolverine" just might be the best comic-book-based superhero epic since Christopher Nolan's "The Dark Knight Rises."

"The Wolverine" dispatches its hero to Japan to grapple with a sinister criminal element and his own virtual immortality. For the uninitiated, the scene shift is surprising - and an effective way of dramatizing and accentuating the hero's dual nature.

At this point [Jackman] could play the role in his sleep - but he doesn't, and the nuances he and director Mangold bring to the character lift this enterprise up from the usual blockbuster-sequel fare.

"The Wolverine" is the best superhero film since "The Avengers" - maybe even since "The Dark Knight."

The Wolverine -- despite being an improvement on Gavin Hood's muddled 2009 X-Men Origins: Wolverine -- isn't worthy of Jackman's gifts.

It's a good effort. Just not an entirely successful one.

Cliches seep into what could have been a fascinating glimpse into a multifaceted character. Still, this X-Men spinoff is a marked improvement over 2009's X-Men Origins: Wolverine.

There's teeming bombast and great gushers of villainy, but we've seen it all before and we'll see it all again, probably next week.

In the mood for a giant cup of "who cares?"

There's the usual villain problem (too many of them -- and none of them memorable) and a tone that may take parents of young Wolverine fans by surprise.

For a sturdy 90 minutes, one of Marvel comic's most intriguing creations is served well by director James Mangold's "The Wolverine."

It doesn't payoff prior installments or set up future ones, but seems to exist almost out of time, for the simple, quaint purpose of pitting its iconic mutant superhero against samurais, ninjas, and vicious yakuza thugs.

Moments in The Wolverine rank among both the franchise's best and worst, but there's enough in the positive column to make the movie a must for fans and entertaining viewing for casual observers.

It's the stuff of Saturday-morning cartoons, but Mangold - who, as in the appalling 'Knight and Day', edits all action sequences on the shaky frappe setting - hasn't the visual pop or lightness of touch to make it bounce.

Though Wolvie comes across a bit world-weary and battle-worn by now, Jackman is in top form, taking the opportunity to test the character's physical and emotional extremes.

Until a third act that collapses in a harebrained heap, the director largely succeeds in keeping the more cartoonish aspects at bay, roughing up the surface with organically staged fight scenes and, crucially, raising the stakes.

Del Toro is a dreamer. He's a visionary. If you give him a pile of money to make enormous robots fight enormous monsters at the end of civilization, he will work to make Pacific Rim a movie that makes you feel all the enormousness.

It is possible to applaud Pacific Rim for the efficacy of its business model while deploring the tale that has been engendered -- long, loud, dark, and very wet. You might as well watch the birth of an elephant.

A ridiculously entertaining (and often just plain ridiculous) monster-robot movie that plays like that "Rock 'em Sock 'em Robots" game from the 1960s.

Its visual achievements notwithstanding, Pacific Rim's greatest breakthrough may be that it's the first Hollywood blockbuster to sport a title less descriptive of its plot than of its intended market.

It's as if Del Toro neuro-linked with a robot and then couldn't figure out how to work the controls -- and so watched impotently as the machine made the major creative decisions.

All the unpredictability of professional wrestling plus the magic of synchronized Stairmasters -- that's what I got out of the vaunted spectacle of Pacific Rim.

There are long sequences in this movie that merit that most overused of terms: "Awesome."

The fights are well-staged and there's just enough interstitial humanity among boxing matches to keep things from getting monotonous.

Del Toro is reveling in blockbuster cliches at the same time he's pounding them into the pavement, and somehow that self-consciousness lets us all in on the joke.

After a long cycle of action movies in which the protagonists spend most of their downtime introspecting about their heroic obligations, Pacific Rim is something different: a heart-warming team-building exercise.

Monsters, robots, grand heroism and a few clever jokes: Sounds like a perfect Saturday afternoon to me.

Pacific Rim's ability to make monster-walloping feel fun again will no doubt make Atlantic Seaboard (or maybe Mediterranean Coastal Region) as inevitable a follow-up as the return of the Kaiju through that pesky underwater portal.

That humanistic touch is pure del Toro, and it makes all the difference in Pacific Rim, whose own whirring, glowing heart doesn't belong to any machine but to the director himself.

My head is still ringing, and hurting, from long stretches of this aliens vs. robots extravaganza that are no better than the worst brain-pounders of the genre.

Pacific Rim, thank the gods of cinema, is the work of a humanist ready to banish cynicism for compassion.

Pacific Rim looks great. It's one of the rare 3-D features that probably delivers more in the large-screen, stereoscopic format - severed Kaiju limbs, comin' at ya!

Inadvertently makes the case that extinction might not be so bad... If this is the best we can do in terms of movies - if something like this can speak to the soul of audiences - maybe we should just turn over the cameras to the alien dinosaurs

The movie is an eyeful, especially in 3-D, but even with humans at the helms of the machines, it's a hollow exercise in homage.

It lasts more than two hours. And there is nothing endearing about it.

Another marathon of cacophony and cliche.

It's the perfect summer spectacle, with giant robots pounding on monsters, monsters stomping on cities, and the kind of mayhem that only big theaters with big screens and big sound systems can truly convey.

"Pacific Rim" creates its own language and its own mythology, and the result is one gloriously entertaining vision that leaves us in wide-eyed wonder.

For all its expensive grandeur, almost too epic even for the vast canvases of IMAX, Pacific Rim is unmistakably a Del Toro creation.

This is Godzilla meets Transformers, with elements of the lesser Star Wars movies, all awash in thunderously loud, non-stop demolition.

A titanic sci-fi action fantasy that has been invested, against all expectations, with a heart, a brain, and something approximating a soul.

Godzilla, eat your heart out.

If you're 10 years old, or just want to feel that way for a couple of hours, "Pacific Rim" provides everything you need except the Twizzlers.

Even if you smirk at the plot conceit of mind-linked humans inside skyscraping robots fighting blockbuster sea beasts, the technical prowess on display can't help but impress.

I was having so much fun I lost track of where the line between good-stupid and bad-stupid might lie.

Some of those catchphrases are mildly clever. The lab coat mumbo-jumbo is amusing. The noble sentiments touch sweet chords. And who does not delight in seeing a robot punch a dinosaur every now and then - or pretty much constantly for two hours?

It's big and loud and kind of dumb and predictable. The difference is that, in del Toro's hands, it's meant to be.

That's exactly what the film feels like: a 48-year-old kid playing with gigantic action figures in the world's most expensive sandbox. Unfortunately, his deep-rooted passion never quite makes the leap from his imagination to the screen.

While the concept isn't original enough to make this an evolutionary leap for the genre, it's a glorious tribute to B-movie fire and fury.

In a field rife with impostors and poseurs, Del Toro, like his mentors, is the real deal. It's good to have him working his magic again.

It's closer to the hammering "Transformers" aesthetic than expected. Yet the weirdness around the edges saves it from impersonality.

As gripping as watching a Transformer toy battle in a bathtub with a rubber dinosaur.

You get 45 minutes of awesome encased in 90 minutes of yawnsome.

You could make another film for half the budget in the time it takes to roll the end credits for CGI imaging. There's stuff to look at, but doesn't anybody care that it doesn't make a word of sense?

Though it's made by an obviously gifted director and will likely please devotees of the genre, it ultimately feels very short on character and long on noise, noise, noise.

The extinction of mankind has loomed again and again over Hollywood blockbusters the past couple of years, though never anywhere near as entertainingly as in "Pacific Rim.''

If Del Toro is pitching for an audience of 12-year-old boys (and we do mean boys: this is old-school macho), he's done a bang-up job.

Though everything we see is pure, pleasurable comic-book absurdity, Del Toro somehow lends a plausible humanity to the proceedings, one lacking in most of this summer's city-destroying blockbusters.

Pacific Rim is just the kind of big-ticket sci-fi adventure you'd want del Toro to make -- provided you'd want him to make one at all.

A better-and-smarter-than-average humans-vs.-monsters spectacular.

They don't let 14 year-old boys direct multi-million dollar feature films, but somehow Guillermo Del Toro has channeled the interests, attitudes and fears from that mindset with a clarity that far surpasses contemporaries like Michael Bay.

Whenever the jaegers and the kaiju throw down in Pacific Rim, it's at night in the pouring rain - unless they're both at the bottom of the ocean. What's the point, exactly, of cutting-edge CG monsters filmed in a way where we can barely see them?

The squarest, clunkiest and certainly loudest movie of director Guillermo del Toro's career, a crushed-metal orgy that plays like an extended 3D episode of "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers" on very expensive acid.

Any thematic audacity is snuffed out by action sequences that you can now buy at Dollar General.

Like Max, the movie has to keep moving, and Mr. Blomkamp lets you fill in the gaps yourself as it progresses. Or not.

Though Elysium is a testament to Blomkamp's extraordinary skill as a visual filmmaker, it does not speak nearly so well for his gifts as a writer.

The action is bludgeoning.

A cautionary tale about the dangers of squandering resources that wastes its own talent.

If Elysium is an example of how recession-era Hollywood intends to dramatize the rift between the haves and the have-nots, let's hope the studios don't also bring back Smell-O-Rama.

An epic about saving humanity that feels more manufactured than human.

It's like one of those bad "Star Trek" episodes, when Gene Roddenberry stopped everything on the bridge so he could lecture us about the Cold War.

This is one of the better action films of the year.

Although the pulp energy that Blomkamp brings to this material makes it consistently watchable, the film doesn't feel as singular as we would have hoped.

Few mainstream moviemakers have painted as sprawling and densely detailed a portrait of humanity in extremis as Blomkamp does here.

Does a little, sometimes shockingly little, with a lot.

Among the slew of recent futuristic hell-in-a-handbasket spectacles, Elysium takes the cake.

Makes clear that Blomkamp is a genuine visionary who's trying to push the envelope of possibility in mainstream popcorn cinema.

The movie's blue-collar aesthetic, impressive in its vision and kinetics, lacks emotional variety and humor.

Damon's presence greatly alleviates the been-there feel of this Elysium excursion, which starts to run out of steam when the usual explosive heroics kick in.

The movie is both sloppy in its details and too literal in its thinking. A less blunt allegory might have made for sharper entertainment.

Director/writer [Neill] Blomkamp has tossed adie any sense of subtlety for a heavy-handed reprise of some of District 9's  basic themes hog-tied to a riff on undocumented immigration.

Mr. Damon brings both a weary optimism and convincing physicality to Max, who is no revolutionary. He just wants to live, and is willing to don an exoskeletal combat suit and fight robots to do it.

Blomkamp's admirable if obvious egalitarianism too often devolves into simplistic wish-fulfillment. Still, his formidable visual imagination is on full display.

I departed the theater satisfied with what I'd seen but wanting more.

Mr. Damon's performance helps keep the movie from sinking under the weight of its artfully constructed horrors.

What's great about "Elysium" is that it invites and even encourages discussion and debate while delivering proficiently at the levels of plot, action and special effects.

This vision of a violent future makes "Elysium" well worth seeing, even as the conventional violence of the thriller finale makes it a missed opportunity.

"Elysium" is an action movie made for people thinking about something besides things blowing up. Damon shows you everything without trying to show you anything - at least without seeming like he's trying. He's like looking into clear water.

Despite a crazy-bad performance from a two-time Oscar winner, 'Elysium' is great entertainment.

Elysium is a gripping, visceral, disconcerting bit of business. Just as writer-director Neill Blomkamp intended.

Damon has an awfully good nose for material; even when "Elysium" grows allegorically simplistic or familiar, the script avoids pounding cliche, and Blomkamp and his design and effects teams give us a plausibly harsh idea of things to come.

A grim and predictable adventure saga that is not nimble but leaden. Dystopia has rarely been so dysto-pointing.

Elysium delivers sci-fi without dumbing it down. It's a hell-raiser with a social conscience.

[A] conceptually bold, sporadically engaging but ultimately bland blockbuster.

It's pretty cool to try to work those worthy topics into a science-fiction film, but it's too bad Blomkamp checked all semblance of subtlety at the door.

An expertly-made slice of future shock that breaks no new ground whatsoever.

Elysium is a sporadically engaging tale, as well as a potent commentary on immigration and health care policies.

Elysium confirms the talent - for razory mayhem and shocking satire, for the crazed spectacle of future decay - that Blomkamp showcased in his amazing first feature, District 9.

The visual style evokes numerous bone-crushing blockbusters of recent years, but part of what makes this so invigorating is the way it turns the genre on its head, critiquing military might and voicing sympathy for the disenfranchised.

Elysium revs you up, and on its own dumb terms it delivers. But it's less fun when Blomkamp blows something up than when he sends it up ...

Like some of the best sci-fi movies, it draws strength from a great idea. Then it settles for crunching battles and predictability.

Furiously exciting sci-fi, carefully considered and loaded with allegories and social commentary.

If ''Elysium'' doesn't nearly live up to ''District 9,'' it shows enough panache to leave us waiting enthusiastically for his next effort.

For all its flaws, Elysium is an often-absorbing and largely entertaining film from a young director with a great future. That makes it worth seeing -- if not a complete success.

Elysium may point with a singularly pulpy brio toward where we could be headed. But in terms of how its fictional heroes try to transcend such brave new worlds, it's not showing us a future we haven't seen a million times before.

Appealing though he usually is as an action hero, Damon doesn't have much to do here but scowl and look cool brandishing giant weapons.

Putting on his Very Serious face for what ought to be a romp, Matt Damon is exactly the wrong choice for a role that 1980s Arnold Schwarzenegger would have played with a twinkle in his eye.

It's hard to say if the movie sags around the weight of [Damon's] performance or if he's just working inhumanly hard to hold this heavy-spirited picture aloft.

It hits you as fact; the director's fiercest gift is not to invent the future, as a plausible dream, but to report on it as if it already existed

Blomkamp's seemingly limitless imagination in terms of tech finds itself repeatedly and frustratingly grounded by heavy-handed storytelling.

It might not be the thinking man's fill-in-the-blank that some viewers were eagerly anticipating, but it's a solid adventure that oversells its deeper meanings.

A politically charged flight of speculative fiction makes an exciting launch, only to tailspin into an ungainly crash landing in Elysium.

Even working within a more conventional framework, Blomkamp again proves to be a superb storyteller.

Although it looks spectacular and boasts some pungent ideas, the surprise-to-running-time ratio is out of whack.

It takes more than an hour for Oblivion to become whatever it is the filmmakers think it's supposed to be.

In space, Jack hopes, someone may hear you dream. But in a movie theater, no one will see you yawn.

Feels ever more grounded and stuck ...

Was Cruise trying to beat out fellow Scientologist John Travolta for the honor of starring in the dumbest sci-fi epic ever?

If nothing else, "Oblivion" will go down in film history as the movie where Tom Cruise pilots a white, sperm-shaped craft into a giant space uterus.

This is the sci-fi movie equivalent of a pretty damn good cover band.

Glossy, derivative, ambitious and fatally underpowered.

The story eventually devolves into a grab bag of sci-fi tropes but, as with so many other Cruise productions, the sheer scale of everything is so mind-numbing that you may not notice.

The sly, surprising and visually magnificent Tom Cruise vehicle that has forced me - and many other people, I suspect - to revise my first opinion of director Joseph Kosinski.

Oblivion is an okay blockbuster, a multimillion-dollar exercise in competence.

Kosinski offers plenty of action here, and he lets the plot reveals bleed out slowly (explanations keep coming right to the end). Yes, a great deal is derivative, but it's fast-moving derivative.

A movie that combines a lot of different films, yet somehow remains less than the sum of its parts ...

More adventurous than your typical Hollywood tent pole, "Oblivion" makes you remember why science fiction movies pulled you in way back when and didn't let you go.

If you're able to forgive and forget, Oblivion isn't a bad place to start loving Tom Cruise all over again.

Director Joseph Kosinski focuses on cool visuals but stints on a compelling plot. It's a dazzler, but the story lacks the impact of the futuristic look.

The mystery posed by "Oblivion" as a whole is why its mysteries are posed so clumsily, and worked out so murkily.

The agony of being a longtime Tom Cruise fan has always been a burden, but now it's just, well, dispiriting.

[Cruise] oversees some pretty impressive stuff here, from the drones that ping-pong around in the air to the bubbleship that Jack uses to go to and fro to that awesome house with its panoramic views.

Kosinski's personal commitment to gorgeous artifice above all other considerations only harms the film so much.

Oblivion gives us stars in the cast, stars in our eyes and it even tweaks a brain cell or three.

The film is rife with elements from its finest predecessors - Kubrick, Lucas, the Wachowskis and Pixar could be listed as creative consultants - but it has the spirit of a love letter to classic sci-fi, not an opportunistic mash-up.

Playing spot-the-influence is the most fun you'll have during this expensive-looking, slow-moving plod through familiar territory.

So "Top Gun" has become "Wall-E."

Stitched together from spare bits of other, often better films,[it]stumbles awkwardly in story and plot, shuffling toward the predictable explosions and fireballs of the third act. Yet...Oblivion is so beautiful to look at.

Instead of developing characters, Kosinski pours most of his imagination into the annihilated landscapes and futuristic gadgetry.

When you go to a futuristic, dystopian, post-apocalyptic barn dance starring Tom Cruise and his space guns, you expect a little zap with your thoughtful pauses.

For all the bells and whistles - an electronic score by M83, a screen-busting Imax presentation and Cruise going full throttle - Oblivion feels arid and antiseptic, untouched by human hands.

Sometimes Oblivion can be pretty oblivious.

The filmmakers don't even have the courage to see the story to its proper end, opting for a ridiculous finale that feels vaguely insulting.

Oblivion is imperfect but some of its imperfections result from being overly ambitious.

You start wondering whether director Joseph Kosinski and screenwriters Karl Gajdusek and Michael DeBruyn have any original ideas of their own. And then you realize they don't.

An unsettling sense of not-quite-right coats all of the film's steely surfaces, and Kosinski and his co-writers give audiences plenty of time to absorb the unease and gear up for the action.

The mix of gee-whiz gadgetry and the day-to-day routineness of Jack and Victoria's lives is interesting enough, but the film is too glacially paced for it to work.

As its palpable sense of dread -- well-sustained in a gently cascading first hour -- gives way to dead ends, this Omega Movie shoots itself in the foot.

"Oblivion" may not live up fully to its grand ambitions, but it isn't for lack of trying.

All the eye candy in the world can't mask the sensation that you've seen this all before...and done better. Too bad the movie's script wasn't given the same attention as its sleek, brave-new-world look.

Rendered with equal parts urgency and familiarity.

For those who enjoy the simple thrill of handsomely stylized image-making, ''Oblivion'' is mostly mesmerizing.

Director Kosinski proves himself talented in ways his Tron: Legacy didn't suggest.

If the dialogue and the concepts of Oblivion had been as fresh and powerful as its art direction, we'd really have something here. Instead, it's something borrowed packaged inside something new.

A terrific-looking sci-fier that loses steam in the second half.

Kosinski continues to lavish far more thought on how his elaborate fantasy worlds look than how they work, and neither the politics nor the human stakes here coalesce into rational or relatable drama.

A moderately clever dystopian mindbender with a gratifying human pulse, despite some questionable narrative developments along the way.

Although it looks spectacular and boasts some pungent ideas, the surprise-to-running-time ratio is out of whack.

It takes more than an hour for Oblivion to become whatever it is the filmmakers think it's supposed to be.

In space, Jack hopes, someone may hear you dream. But in a movie theater, no one will see you yawn.

Feels ever more grounded and stuck ...

Was Cruise trying to beat out fellow Scientologist John Travolta for the honor of starring in the dumbest sci-fi epic ever?

If nothing else, "Oblivion" will go down in film history as the movie where Tom Cruise pilots a white, sperm-shaped craft into a giant space uterus.

This is the sci-fi movie equivalent of a pretty damn good cover band.

Glossy, derivative, ambitious and fatally underpowered.

The story eventually devolves into a grab bag of sci-fi tropes but, as with so many other Cruise productions, the sheer scale of everything is so mind-numbing that you may not notice.

The sly, surprising and visually magnificent Tom Cruise vehicle that has forced me - and many other people, I suspect - to revise my first opinion of director Joseph Kosinski.

Oblivion is an okay blockbuster, a multimillion-dollar exercise in competence.

Kosinski offers plenty of action here, and he lets the plot reveals bleed out slowly (explanations keep coming right to the end). Yes, a great deal is derivative, but it's fast-moving derivative.

A movie that combines a lot of different films, yet somehow remains less than the sum of its parts ...

More adventurous than your typical Hollywood tent pole, "Oblivion" makes you remember why science fiction movies pulled you in way back when and didn't let you go.

If you're able to forgive and forget, Oblivion isn't a bad place to start loving Tom Cruise all over again.

Director Joseph Kosinski focuses on cool visuals but stints on a compelling plot. It's a dazzler, but the story lacks the impact of the futuristic look.

The mystery posed by "Oblivion" as a whole is why its mysteries are posed so clumsily, and worked out so murkily.

The agony of being a longtime Tom Cruise fan has always been a burden, but now it's just, well, dispiriting.

[Cruise] oversees some pretty impressive stuff here, from the drones that ping-pong around in the air to the bubbleship that Jack uses to go to and fro to that awesome house with its panoramic views.

Kosinski's personal commitment to gorgeous artifice above all other considerations only harms the film so much.

Oblivion gives us stars in the cast, stars in our eyes and it even tweaks a brain cell or three.

The film is rife with elements from its finest predecessors - Kubrick, Lucas, the Wachowskis and Pixar could be listed as creative consultants - but it has the spirit of a love letter to classic sci-fi, not an opportunistic mash-up.

Playing spot-the-influence is the most fun you'll have during this expensive-looking, slow-moving plod through familiar territory.

So "Top Gun" has become "Wall-E."

Stitched together from spare bits of other, often better films,[it]stumbles awkwardly in story and plot, shuffling toward the predictable explosions and fireballs of the third act. Yet...Oblivion is so beautiful to look at.

Instead of developing characters, Kosinski pours most of his imagination into the annihilated landscapes and futuristic gadgetry.

When you go to a futuristic, dystopian, post-apocalyptic barn dance starring Tom Cruise and his space guns, you expect a little zap with your thoughtful pauses.

For all the bells and whistles - an electronic score by M83, a screen-busting Imax presentation and Cruise going full throttle - Oblivion feels arid and antiseptic, untouched by human hands.

Sometimes Oblivion can be pretty oblivious.

The filmmakers don't even have the courage to see the story to its proper end, opting for a ridiculous finale that feels vaguely insulting.

Oblivion is imperfect but some of its imperfections result from being overly ambitious.

You start wondering whether director Joseph Kosinski and screenwriters Karl Gajdusek and Michael DeBruyn have any original ideas of their own. And then you realize they don't.

An unsettling sense of not-quite-right coats all of the film's steely surfaces, and Kosinski and his co-writers give audiences plenty of time to absorb the unease and gear up for the action.

The mix of gee-whiz gadgetry and the day-to-day routineness of Jack and Victoria's lives is interesting enough, but the film is too glacially paced for it to work.

As its palpable sense of dread -- well-sustained in a gently cascading first hour -- gives way to dead ends, this Omega Movie shoots itself in the foot.

"Oblivion" may not live up fully to its grand ambitions, but it isn't for lack of trying.

All the eye candy in the world can't mask the sensation that you've seen this all before...and done better. Too bad the movie's script wasn't given the same attention as its sleek, brave-new-world look.

Rendered with equal parts urgency and familiarity.

For those who enjoy the simple thrill of handsomely stylized image-making, ''Oblivion'' is mostly mesmerizing.

Director Kosinski proves himself talented in ways his Tron: Legacy didn't suggest.

If the dialogue and the concepts of Oblivion had been as fresh and powerful as its art direction, we'd really have something here. Instead, it's something borrowed packaged inside something new.

A terrific-looking sci-fier that loses steam in the second half.

Kosinski continues to lavish far more thought on how his elaborate fantasy worlds look than how they work, and neither the politics nor the human stakes here coalesce into rational or relatable drama.

A moderately clever dystopian mindbender with a gratifying human pulse, despite some questionable narrative developments along the way.

White House Down is terrible. The acting? The effects? The villainy? All bad. The politics are a hot mess.

If all you're after is a pair of mismatched heroes wisecracking their way through a series of explosive, well-mounted set pieces, look no further.

It's Independence Day without the aliens and a president partial to Air Jordans.

The main flaw of White House Down is that it overstays its welcome, thanks in large part to a silly climax that seems to unfold in three laborious acts.

Essentially a louder, sillier version of Die Hard, with John Cale standing in for John McClane, a precocious daughter standing in for the plucky wife, and, alas, no one even much trying to stand in for Alan Rickman's deliciously wicked Hans Gruber.

It follows the Emmerich template: a spectacle-tinged, compelling setup; a dumb, disappointing midsection; and a cheese-topped denouement that veers so close to self-parody that one is tempted to call it funny.

Formula action films don't come much more formulaic that this.

Emmerich isn't strenuous about setting a consistent tone. Action movie blow-ups are interlaced with dumb jokes and slapstick. He's an anything-for-effect guy, but some of his effects are none too effective.

Emmerich is an old hand at blowing up the White House and finds new wings as well as other national monuments to destroy: They blow up real good.

In this season of solemnly manly blockbusters, I appreciated the boyish energy of White House Down, a movie that, for all its flamboyant destructiveness, has a playful innocence at its core.

'White House Down' is, at certain moments, a good time in spite of itself. I, for one, was certainly glad when it was over.

Wonderfully orchestrated, mindless, summer-action fun.

It's the Die-Hard-in-the-White-House scenes that are the real stars - tightly framed and quickly paced scenes of mayhem, murder and hand-to-hand combat as an on-his-own Tatum tries to save the day.

In Emmerich's universe, no one ever went broke underestimating the world's desire to see things go boom.

The essential climate of the movie - the climate of hysteria, dysfunction and mendacity, backed up by an enduring, essentially optimistic and arguably idiotic culture of popular patriotism ... feels strikingly authentic to our historical moment.

White House Down is the kind of celebration of rampant mayhem in which everyone seems to have a rocket launcher -- or at least a live hand grenade -- at the ready, just in case they need to dispatch a scrum of exceptionally vile and cruel villains.

It's a blatant attempt for the director to revive his box office fortunes by blowing up parts of the White House Complex as gaudily as he did 18 years ago.

As demented and entertaining as promised, and a little less idiotic than feared.

White House Down has exactly what you'd expect from [Emmerich] and from the genre, only louder and dumber.

"White House Down" is solidly within its genre. In a deeper sense, though, it bespeaks a fatigue that's hard to distinguish from brain death.

Each nutty scenario is surpassed by the next, ludicrous story lines coalesce with expert orchestration, and absurd details return with perfect timing to build to a crescendo of hilarity.

The dialogue sometimes clunks. But the film also delivers the requisite thrills and action, and with strong, likable actors filling up the lead roles, it's the kind of exciting, escapist fare designed for summer viewing.

"White House Down" is wonderfully violent and often laugh-out-loud funny, a shopworn premise resuscitated as a sweaty, rousing, ironic, intense, movie-love-reaffirming free-for-all.

For pure enjoyment, for a good time at the movies, for something that will delight and exhilarate and send audiences out laughing, satisfied and thoroughly worked over, it's hard to imagine anything beating "White House Down."

White House Down, rated PG-13 but as crass and cynical as a Michael Bay movie, is a depressing experience. A manufactured hit that plays to the basest instincts of its audience.

[A] hard-charging, fairly digestible thriller.

"White House Down" is a hoot and a half, a shameless popcorn entertainment that is preposterous and diverting in just about equal measure.

If stripped of its production value, ''White House Down'' would make one hysterical off-Broadway one-act.

It's full of malarkey, but as a campaign of shock and awe, it's hard to resist.

While White House Down isn't going to score points for originality, seriousness, or subtlety (Emmerich likes his political messages blunt and loud), it is a lot of fun; if nothing else, Emmerich is a great widescreen showman ...

[Emmerich's] slam-bang succession of dire situations - Don't kill that child! Don't launch those nukes! - is so relentless it becomes tedious.

What makes White House Down not just tolerable but frivolously entertaining is its slapstick soul ...

All the action scenes, as with many modern Hollywood blockbusters, are seemingly edited with a Cuisinart, or that the copious CGI would barely pass muster in one of those Asylum DTV quickies.

Everyone in "White House Down" is an idiot, clinically insane, a cliche, or a vehicle for shameless exploitation.

The chemistry of the lead actors mitigates the contrived setup and numbing explosions.

The main difference between Emmerich and fellow maestros of mayhem like Michael Bay is that he actually seems to be in on the joke. He knows his movies are preposterous nonsense and he embraces it.

White House Down stands as a singular achievement in parody, its auteur's intentions be damned.

Fails to deliver on the campaign promise that it will be as fun as the original "Die Hard."

Tatum and Foxx's nigh-instantaneous camaraderie makes the alternately corny and convoluted routine of the rest a bit easier to take, even as Emmerich makes every effort to supplant intelligence with patriotism.

What isn't tonally jarring ends up shatteringly inept.

[A] welcome throwback to an earlier, more generously entertaining era of summer blockbusters ...

There's scant originality here, but witnessing America's hearth and home under siege still brings an emotional frisson to the silly thrills.

You couldn't ask for a more fun summer popcorn movie than "White House Down."

Ultimately, it's popcorn nihilism without the big laughs that helped distract from the casual approach to life and death in 'Red'.

This is a likable, almost gentle comedy and also a violent action film about the possibility of a nuclear bomb going off in a major city.

Willis is self-evidently capable of kicking the asses of men considerably younger than himself. But at some point shouldn't he consider an alternative pastime?

No movie with this much ass-kicking should feel so lifeless.

Ridiculously action-packed and just as endearing, Red 2 is why we go to sequels despite our well-earned cynicism about studios churning them out.

It's nice to see oldsters cavorting in kaboom movies, but a little of this stuff goes a long way.

What's interesting about 'RED 2' is that, not only is it better than its predecessor, it is miles better ...

What was once engagingly silly is now much closer to insultingly dumb.

The best thing about RED 2, like its predecessor, is its lightness of tone. Too many movies with comic-book roots come on too seriously, even when the comics themselves have a loose, fast, jocular wit about them.

As in the first film, the seasoned-pro cast provides the few fleeting pleasures to be found.

It's quite possible that Helen Mirren has never had to speak such terrible dialogue in her life.

Recycled, Expensive, Dull.

Sequels are, for the most part, inherently stale, so it's no shock the luster has faded in "Red 2." The bigger surprise is just how clunky and unsatisfying this follow-up feels.

Cars careen, lazily written infiltration plans are executed, and the violence is plentiful and toothless.

If everyone delivered their lines with the rat-a-tat-tat precision of Malkovich, Mirren and Hopkins, the studio might have had a better movie on its hands.

How bad could the boneyard be compared to sitting through this execrable piece of non-entertainment? Better dead than "RED 2."

This sequel to the action comedy about veteran espionage agents charging back into action lacks elegance and wit and is devoid of thrills, except for those brought by Byung-hun Lee as a Korean contract killer.

Enemies and allies have changed sides so many times so randomly, that you're not sure who's fighting whom or why. You just know they all look a little old to be engaged in this sort of reckless behavior.

Passable summer entertainment - an Expendables with people who can act.

Any movie that gives Helen Mirren a chance to shoot really big guns, wear an ermine astrakhan and channel Bette Davis as Queen Elizabeth can't be all bad, and "Red 2" isn't, though it comes close.

"RED 2" stands quite sturdily on its own as a caper comedy whose stars just happen to be approaching 50, 60 and even 70 years old.

It's utter drivel coasting by on slick proficiency (at 100 miles an hour).

There is a fine line between silly dumb fun and out-and-out stupidity, and "Red 2" crosses it one time too many.

Sitting through it is nowhere near as enjoyable as the experience of watching its predecessor.

It often feels tired and by the book, missing the heart of the original in ways that can't be enlivened by any number of crazy lids on Marvin's addled cranium.

"Red 2" is not just a bad movie, it's bad karma. And the target audience of adult moviegoers who respect the names in its once-vital cast have a bull's-eye on their collective cranium.

The movie's adequate. That's not much.

It's never laugh-out-loud funny or inside-track smart, but in a summer full of bombastic failures, a lack of pretense is enough.

"RED 2" is a sequel that has some snappy interplay, typically courtesy of Malkovich, but mostly feels like a cast working to manufacture what came naturally the first time.

"Red 2" does have its share of surprises, and the biggest of these is how funny the picture is and how very much fun the actors in it seem to be having.

Like its predecessor, it's a one-joke movie; the difference is that this time around, the joke is better.

Any good spy has to take risks to be successful. Too bad director Dean Parisot and his team didn't employ the same concept.

It should all be so much fun. But Red 2 just feels dutiful, as if it's relieved that all its parts somehow fit together properly.

Not that it isn't entertaining, but the film's premise is certainly well past its "use by" date.

in a lackadaisical sequel no one asked for except perhaps his creditors, Bruce Willis seems unmotivated to smile at all, much less offer a series of emotions that constitute a believable or compelling performance.

An obligatory sequel that can't quite recapture the sly, laid-back pleasures of its cheerfully ridiculous predecessor.

"On the Job" is a sturdy and sophisticated crime drama from the Philippines that takes a pretty gruesome situation and enriches its presentation with lots of human detail.

Matti uses this setup to show the rot in Philippine society, and it's often compelling stuff - filmed mostly on dirty streets and in moldy, ramshackle buildings.

Even at its most incomprehensible, the propulsive thriller "On the Job" is never less than arresting.

Makes up in character development and action shots what it lacks in narrative innovation.

Despite the relative flatness of [the] characters - their relationships to one another are more archetypal than particular - the film is as heartbreaking as it is heart-stopping.

The film manages to create some moments of genuine nervous tension, but is undercut by its split storytelling.

Combining street-level crime with political corruption, On the Job owes as much to Scorsese as it does to Philippine current events.

