Although there have been worse sequels -- and worse overall movies -- make no mistake, that's hardly a recommendation.

Maybe Paul Blart isn't spoofing John McClane after all; maybe these movies are actually too stupid to realize what they're imitating.

Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2 may be forgettable, but it's difficult to truly dislike.

A movie whose chuckles (six, I counted) are outnumbered by helicopter shots of the Wynn resort in Las Vegas.

You won't find much offensive in Kevin James's slick, innocuous vehicle Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2. You won't find much prompting an emotional reaction in general, so familiar are the jokes and situations.

Caddyshack 2. Exorcist 2. Speed 2. To this small sample of the ever-expanding list of wretched movie sequels, add Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2, a gobsmackingly witless excuse for entertainment.

Far from the worst movie that you'll ever see, but you might leave wondering why you, the people on the screen, or anyone else in the theater even bothered.

The cinematic equivalent of biting into an old brown banana.

Truly, there is not a single redeeming moment in director Andy Fickman's film. A general flatness and lethargy permeates these reheated proceedings.

Nobody was expecting much from Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2, but did it have to be this unimaginative and lifeless?

Kevin James keeps falling on his face and colliding with heavy objects, this time in Vegas, in this tacky, numbingly inane sequel.

James tries hard, very hard, to inject the proceedings with slapstick humor, propelling his large body through endless physical contortions in a fruitless effort for laughs.

This wisp of a plot is just an excuse for James to do his one trick over and over: Bluster, then screw up humiliatingly. Is it never funny? No, it's not never funny. It's just not funny nearly often enough.

What would a film be like if every single person involved made as little effort as humanly possible?

Heartwarming and harmless? Sure, why not. But it's also numbing in its simplicity and often rather annoying.

The combination of Home's layered message, fun score, and clever comedy make it a colorful choice for moviegoers of any age.

Anyone over 10 will see the plot twists a mile away. Kids will probably enjoy the goofy Boovs, the rainbows of colors and the music. Call me a traditionalist, but I still say the world was a better place before those darn Boovs invaded.

A surprisingly moving tale of friendship and family, dressed up as an adorably frivolous sci-fi comedy.

Maybe it's because kids sometimes feel like aliens in a grown-up world, but from E.T. and Elliott to Lilo and Stitch, pairing a child with a creature from outer space can prove to be a winning combination.

A big, fat happy meal of a movie ...

Aside from Parsons' initially amusingly mangled Yoda-like English, which gets a tad repetitive, Home doesn't stand out as fresh or particularly funny.

Tension is one of "Home's" biggest issues. There just isn't nearly enough of it. Story is another. Even a kids' movie needs more complexity and more invention.

A charming concoction with positive messages for younger children about conquering fears, understanding outsiders and knowing yourself.

Director Tim Johnson ("Over the Hedge") and his animators can't maintain this level of freshness throughout, but that's where Parsons and his goofy charm take over.

It works moderately well thanks largely to the voice talents of Jim Parsons and, to a lesser extent, Steve Martin. Two droll dudes who put a fair share of funny into this animated picture.

Tim Johnson ( Antz) has capitalized on DreamWorks' proprietary animation platform, Apollo to create a rich, intricate setting...But the technology doesn't save the film from falling flat on other levels.

The bland "Home" is a crash pad at best.

Aggressive and cynical approach to children's entertainment, pummeling viewers with mechanical-looking action sequences (which suggest video game demos), unfunny one-liners, and overly loud pop songs and sound effects.

Key characters are admirably diverse, but the fast-paced tale is thoroughly predictable.

The film moves quickly and keeps the jokes coming, which only means that "Home" would rather keep young viewers occupied than give them something to think about.

When we scratch beneath the sugary surface, there's something tart inside that's difficult to digest.

Lazy gags, and it's been done better elsewhere.

This kiddie sci-fi adaptation doesn't quite live up to its evocative title.

I brought a couple of my kids, who liked it fine and found the friendship at the center rather affecting.

DreamWorks movies are often about outsiders learning that they don't have to fit in, a lesson the filmmakers may not have absorbed themselves.

The Gummi-colored animation is imaginative, but director Tim Johnson's ho-hum 3D cartoon remains strictly 1D.

Like the timorous Boov, "Home" has little interest in risk-taking.

As animated sci-fi for small fry, it's a success whose modest but well-executed ambitions are no small part of its charm.

An earnest exercise that falls flat, despite the best of intentions.

Inoffensive but flavourless, and crammed with familiar elements from better movies like  Lilo and Stitch ,  Toy Story  and  Despicable Me .

There may be no place like home, but there are a lot of places like Home, an animated adventure about the unlikely friendship between a lonely girl and an alien misfit that can't help but feel familiar.

From a creative standpoint, this is the studio's least exciting feature yet - hardly its worst, execution-wise, but entirely lacking in the risk-taking spirit that has spawned such successful franchises as "Shrek," "Kung Fu Panda" and "Dragon."

With art-heist caper Mortdecai, Johnny Depp tries his darnedest to start a kooky Austin Powers-like franchise with a side of bumbling Insp. Clouseau. But dash it all if it isn't a crashing bore, old bean.

Mortdecai isn't particularly funny, but it's also not the Pistachio Disguisey 2015 train wreck the Internet has spent the last few months anticipating. It's brainless, but it's painless.

Depp's strenuously unfunny performance turns a frivolous caper comedy into a grim death march to the closing credits.

Go if you're a raging Anglophile with an afternoon to burn or you just love Depp, even at his hammiest. Otherwise, don't point this thing at you.

Daffy, dated, and precisely as intended.

Every time Depp gave a phlegmy little stammer and jauntily uttered lines like, "I say, old bean," I wanted to bop him on the same with a rotten tangerine.

It's exactly the sort of oddball trifle, like Hudson Hawk, that tends to attract the ire of baffled audiences and grumpy critics. It's also the sort of oddball trifle that, like Hudson Hawk, will put certain aficionados of silliness in a pretty good mood.

"Don't be tiresome," Paltrow tells Depp at one point. Or did I forget myself and yell that at the screen myself?

A whirlwind of horrible British accents, too much gagging and not enough good gags, and weak dialogue that, while not exactly terrible, is terribly boring.

Those who do find their way into this supremely silly action-mystery caper are in for a few grins if not laughs thanks largely to the deft - and daft - performance of Johnny Depp in the title role.

Mr. Depp's wizardly expertise at disappearing into a character is intact. But what if that character isn't funny and hasn't an ounce of charm?

"Mortdecai" is mortdifying, a mortdal sin of a movie that's headed for the cinematic mortduary.

Mortdecai is an anachronistic mess that never succeeds in re-creating the breezy tone or snappy rhythm of the classic caper movies that it aims to pastiche.

Johnny Depp has done so much for us. Let us now return the favor and pretend "Mortdecai," a disastrously misjudged career low, never existed.

It's hard to escape the suspicion that the only people sure to enjoy 'Mortdecai' are Depp, Paltrow, Tim Burton and Madonna.

Energetic but obstinately unfunny, David Koepp's throwback farce is a showcase for Johnny Depp at his most self-amused.

While watching this new caper, I was reminded why movies like this are called souffles in the first place: if they don't stay perfectly aloft, they collapse.

In other words, we're getting a nice, well-written, solid movie about people we believe would actually exist in real life.

It's a sitcom setup that husband-and-wife screenwriters Jeff Cox and Liz Flahive manage to (almost) cover with a fresh coat of funny and touching.

The kind of comedy that goes down easy even as it looks at the hard stuff.

The director Ross Katz, making his feature directing debut, does occasionally move the camera around, but for the most part he just points and shoots his performers talking, joking, whining, sharing and caring.

The relative success or failure of "Adult Beginners," directed with a steady, nonjudgmental hand by Ross Katz, depends on how funny you find Kroll. I find him funny-ish.

Fittingly, the film has an adult beginning before slowly sinking into infantile platitudes.

It's all very low stakes. We know how this is going to turn out. But it is a pleasure watching Kroll and Byrne to the end.

A slightly sourish cocktail of bad behavior, wry observation, and commentary on how difficult modern life can be, especially for characters who feel entitled to a better one.

The not-funny-enough dialogue can't mask writer Kroll's unoriginal plot. Still, he can smirk with the best of them.

The early scenes are acidly funny... By the end, though, this has turned into a Tim Allen movie.

It's harmless and mild and likable, but it's also a toothless comedy that should have had some bite.

Like last year's equally promising The Skeleton Twins, it soars whenever it sticks to persuasively lived-in sibling banter (Rose Byrne is sharp as ever).

It glides along the surface where conversations that include the question "Are you really happy?" pass for bonding.

Neither dramatic enough to qualify as drama nor amusing enough to completely succeed as comedy, it's the kind of movie that coasts on pleasantness, content to elicit a few smiles before disappearing from memory banks.

If men-children like Jake don't outgrow telling their stories, their crib will feel like an artistic prison.

The pleasant but forgettable "Adult Beginners" strains a bit too hard for a happy ending, and tends to lay on the schmaltz and metaphors (like the swim class that gives the film its title) with a trowel.

Married-in-real-life screenwriters Liz Flahive and Jeff Cox can do poignant (not tossing family memorabilia) and clever (connecting Skype, hairspray, and stepparents), though the humor is intermittent.

Perhaps it could have benefited from a little more of the comedic energy and subversive spirit that Bryne, Kroll and Cannavale have all proved more than capable of in previous roles.

Another indie comedy seemingly inspired by Robert Frost's verse from "The Death of the Hired Man" about how "home is the place where, when you go there, they have to take you in," "Adult Beginners" has everything going for it aside from a reason to exist.

Likable but slight.

Rose Byrne and Nick Kroll play a sibling duo navigating their shared and respective crises in this warmly appealing dramedy.

On Day One of filming, they must have thrown away the moral compass and taken a group vow to splatter our sensibilities with stylish, gratuitous violence and one "Wait, what?!" moment after another.

Any sense of triumph is purely at the level of stuntcraft. The rest feels less than the sum of the moving parts.

Camping it up, Jackson is hilarious.

Frequently reactionary, bordering on retrograde, bordering on reprobate. But it's also a tremendous amount of fun.

Based on a comic book, Kingsman occasionally betrays its roots but Vaughn has adapted it to fit his unique approach.

Kingsman is not a film for gentlemen. It's for us, the great unwashed, bloodthirsty audience. It's an immaculately engineered, laugh-out-loud appeal to our own depravity.

It relishes low-class ugliness.

Kingsman: The Secret Service is a lively, dashing and amusing motion picture that smartly spoofs and slyly celebrates the James Bond spy-film franchise.

The film tries so hard to be a clever, deconstructive meta-tale, forever winking at the audience about its silly story, that it metas itself into insignificance.

The problem is that Mr. Vaughn has no interest in, or perhaps understanding of, violence as a cinematic tool. He doesn't use violence; he squanders it.

Ultimately, there's little to care about in Kingsman, a spy film that's all dressed up with no place to go.

"Kingsman: The Secret Service" is a youth-quaking riff bursting with affection for vintage 007 action and urbanity, yet one that feels wholly organic in the way it goes about selling this appreciation to a younger crowd.

If you can forgive the failings for at least some of the two-plus-hour running time, "Kingsman" serves up its share of entertaining froth.

Kingsman ... keeps finding new ways to surprise with well-trodden territory.

Vaughn packs the frames with eye-popping detail, and there's an infectious creative energy to his violent action sequences, but the film's hatefulness is hard to stomach.

There's enough action, suspense and all-around fun to make Kingsman: The Secret Service an unexpectedly enjoyable ride.

The less you try to make sense of "Kingsman: The Secret Service," the more you'll enjoy this freewheeling, preposterously violent action comedy from the creators of "Kick-Ass."

This absurdist mashup of spy-movie genres-especially those with gentleman spies-points up the frenzied pace of change with a frenzy of its own, then runs low on comic resources in the process.

Like the rookie who knows that you have to make a few mistakes while following the master, the movie shrugs off its missteps with a wink and a smile that makes them easy to forgive.

The mix of comedy and corpses in "Kingsman" becomes callous and clueless - in addition to seeming about 50 years behind the times.

Things go from far-fetched to insane before it's over, and Vaughn wisely keeps the pace at a healthy clip. But never underestimate his power to floor you.

"Kingsman" is like a high-speed collision between a Jaguar and a jaywalking soccer hooligan. It's ridiculously out of balance, and when you're stuck in the middle, it doesn't seem so funny.

A stylized superspy caper stretching a selection of high-profile actors to roles satirically against type.

Its blend of breathless action with Brit irreverence is like James Bond skipping the martinis and lacing a proper cup of tea with crack.

I will say this: "Kingsman" has some nerve, however misguided.

Slick entertainment, provided the viewer turns off whatever part of their brain is responsible for recognizing and parsing subtext.

A cleverly constructed homage to the Bond pictures, particularly the early ones starring Sean Connery, before everything got so deadly serious in the Daniel Craig era.

Caught between straight-up James Bond and the Austin Powers parody version, Kingsman is a high-octane combo of action and comedy that breathes surreal new life into the big-screen spy game where Bond meets Jason Bourne and Jack Bauer.

The violence flies repellently over the top, and the finale features an extended joke so insanely sexist it sends us out on a seriously sour note.

Borrows the tone, story, characters and humor of "Kick-Ass," only this time in a 007 world instead of Batman's. Nearly everything it does, it does poorly: This one is "Weak-Ass."

If you're not averse to ridiculous violence and un-PC irreverence, your money will be well spent.

Expensive, derivative and boring as mattress ticking masquerading as designer fabric ...

Pure fanboy ecstasy- a muscle-flexing spectacle of cartoon violence and cheeky attitude, which announces its cleverness at every turn.

Everything in Kingsman is familiar, cribbed from James Bond and a thousand other sources, yet every setup gets twisted twice, and then once more, just when you think you're ahead of it.

Countless viewers will relish the brazen zest of its invention.

'Kingsman' is undoubtedly worth the ticket price. Just try not to think too much...

Firth enters new territory with style and grace, anchoring a smart, high-energy movie that eventually runs out of steam.

Whether it's "Alex Rider," "Agent Cody Banks" or "Spy Kids," plenty have tried to adapt the 007 shtick to younger characters, with demonstrably dopey results. In the end, the reason it works for Vaughn is that he's making the film for adults.

A startlingly enjoyable and well-made action film leavened by humor and slicked along by style, made by, for, and about people who've seen far too many Bond films.

A confused and contradictory mess.

Ferrell has stuck to the formulaic farce that made him a star, even as his roles have been shifting from antic instigator to bewildered straight man.

Dumb, juvenile comedy has its place when it's funny. Unfortunately, too often in Get Hard, it's not.

From its juvenile double entendre title to its fascination with prison rape and homophobic humor, "Get Hard" practically announces itself as an offensive, tired and unimaginative comedy in nearly every scene.

It trucks in stereotypes (black, white, Latino, female -- the list is long) and plays clumsily with sexuality. Still, the movie's greatest and altogether familiar sin is that it's stupid.

Get Hard turns out to be a far cry from something like Trading Places or even the clever first half of the class-insurrection comedy of Tower Heist.

It feels like a bunch of off-color jokes the filmmakers have been trying to tell for years, and they've crammed them all into one film - with tiresome results.

Will you laugh? Absolutely. Could this have been a better film? Definitely.

Not entirely unfunny.

The highest praise I can give "Get Hard" is that it is not quite as awful as it could have been.

A lazy attempt to drag out a Funny or Die-style skit to feature length by continuously recycling about eight minutes worth of gags.

The movie seeks to make you laugh while also risking offense by going too far. It succeeds on both counts.

With Ferrell and Hart involved, it's probably impossible for anyone to completely resist their baser instincts to be amused by the patently offensive. Though it's hard not to wish more moviegoers would.

It's still ultimately a disposable work, but at least while it's going, it hits hard.

It's tricky territory to tread, and Get Hard doesn't always get it right, but in a nation where racial and economic divides are growing issues, it deserves credit for trying.

A movie that refuses to recognize when it's going too far, with its wince-eliciting jokes about jailhouse rape in particular.

Funny bits come along every now and then, and the co-stars work desperately hard for their salaries. But the spectacle is depressing for what it says of mainstream studio standards.

Since anyone who has seen the trailer has already seen many of the film's best moments, making it through to the end does feel like something of a life sentence.

Anal rape jokes and racial stereotypes dominate this third-rate comedy.

Get Hard is hard to sit through and hardly funny.

The germ of an interesting idea in Get Hard is completely overshadowed by the onslaught of jokes meant to be boundary-pushing and edgy.

Subtly, not in a way anyone would notice without looking for it, the movie switches back and forth, giving each comedian a chance to be the funny one and the other to lend support.

Ideally, this would be Blazing Saddles for folks who chug kombucha. Yet it's harder to satirize race today than it was 40 years ago - more sensitive times impose gentler jokes.

The film's numbing lack of intelligence, exhibited from the start, makes "Get Hard" tough to watch, even by Hart/Ferrell standards.

Hart and Ferrell may not be Pryor and Wilder, but they score several laughs in this slim comedy.

This is a horrible idea for a movie. It is, however, a decent idea for an extended sketch, and that's how the first two-thirds of the movie plays.

The dubious merit of tiresome "don't drop the soap" jokes aside, "Get Hard" sometimes veers perilously close to committing the very sins it aspires to criticize.

I laughed when Ferrell smashed a bottle of beer on the sidewalk, just to show he's tough, but if that's a movie's standout bit, that movie's no standout.

Get Hard is one limp noodle.

Before the movie has even really begun, it's already fudging its own premise and undermining its satire.

Only the humorless will frown at Ferrell's easy way with white-guy entitlement. "I'm going to be attending San Quentin," the Harvard grad sniffs, almost as a point of pride; later, after tasting thug life, he calls it an "ambrosia of primal sensations."

Get Hard is not only a bad movie but a profoundly wasted opportunity.

"Get Hard" isn't edgy enough to be offensive or witty enough to be challenging. It's just dumb.

It already seems more dated than Trading Places - not to mention less savvy about all the subjects it pretends to be addressing while it tries to make us laugh.

Laughter trumps political fairness; and Get Hard made me laugh at, and with, situations I hadn't thought could tickle me. The movie has a warm heart beating under its seemingly scabrous shell.

If you're disturbed by white-collar crime, but not quite as disturbed as you are by gay sex, then congratulations: You might possess just the right combo of social conscience and unexamined homophobia needed to fully enjoy Get Hard.

There's a daring comedy somewhere inside writer Etan Cohen's directorial debut, which simultaneously trivializes and solemnizes the prospect of prison rape.

"Get Hard" is worth a look for fans of Will Ferrell and Kevin Hart. And the two do work well together. But anyone with a low tolerance for politically incorrect stereotyping and lowbrow humor should sit this one out.

The plot's old, the title's borrowed and the jokes are blue - but there's nothing remotely new in this wearying bromantic comedy.

Screenwriters Jeremy Garelick and Jay Lavender don't even try to make the premise seem plausible; rather, they use it as a springboard for screwball complications and verbal humor.

What saves the film are its two leads, who aren't afraid to show their sensitive sides -- along with other parts of themselves.

The Wedding Ringer feels spat out for people who love Katherine Heigl movies but wish that Eddie Murphy were in her role instead.

A mostly disposable, occasionally quite funny bromance distinguished at times by its earnestness.

Hart rants, Gad fidgets, and together this pair barrels through the plot, shaping between them a surprisingly potent friendship.

If you're at the multiplex in the middle of the afternoon, and "The Wedding Ringer" is the only movie playing at a time that's convenient, you won't be completely miserable. This is not exactly a ringing endorsement, I realize.

This isn't something anyone really needs to buy. It's OK, it'll do but - like Hart's character - it's strictly a rental.

Love hurts, but Jeremy Garelick's The Wedding Ringer is truly painful.

Hart is laser-focused and in-the-moment, and is consistently better than everything around him. He and Gad have the makings of a Will Smith and Kevin James in "Hitch" thing going on, but the script doesn't allow them to explore that dynamic.

By the time Jeremy Garelick's movie gets to the altar, it does hit a groove. But by then, the humor feels like stale champagne.

I almost passed out, hyperventilating after uncontrollable bursts of hyena laughs. It took a full evening's rest for the ache to dissipate from the belly.

Unless your idea of the ultimate screen comedy is to witness how many different ways a fat guy can fall down in one film, you're probably better off breaking off this engagement.

The Wedding Ringer is imperfect but its imperfections are tolerable because they're accompanied by a dollop of drama, a measure of laughter, and an oversized helping of Kevin Hart.

The director Jeremy Garelick, who wrote the script with Jay Lavender, takes the shortest route whenever possible, which usually means a gratuitous insult.

Not since Wild Hogs, perhaps, has a comedy so repeatedly insisted that there's nothing funnier than the thought of two men touching each other.

Too often the filmmakers go for cheap shots.

Squeezes out some weak laughs amid alternating scenes of gross behaviour and sickly sweet male bonding confessionals.

Hart is such a skilled comic - his lightning-fast riffs are almost always funny, even when they're in the midst of hateful dreck like this - that I can't believe he can't talk his way into better material.

Sets you up to expect a comedy that's homophobic but not misogynistic; that it delivers the opposite counts as a surprise, albeit not an entirely satisfying one.

Whether gleefully treading where fools rush in or subjecting characters to surprising harm for laughs, the thing is funny; at times very funny.

The whiff of stale leftovers ... hangs over the movie from start to finish.

For all [its] assets, "The Wedding Ringer" ultimately flattens out in all-too-familiar ways ...

Despite boasting several important moral lessons, the period piece is more artificial than a polyester teddy bear stuffed with Splenda and Cheez Whiz - and about as appealing

It's meant to be a tale of uplift for faith-based audiences, but instead wears viewers down with a heavy-handed narrative, an overbearing score and voiceover that spells out everything in cringe-inducing, folksy tones.

Tolerance, World War II history and faith are served up with a sticky sentimental gloss in the family film "Little Boy."

A movie that has the haranguing inspirational tone of a marathon Sunday-school lesson.

I just wish the filmmakers didn't feel like they had to hit us over the head with all the moral pontificating to get their point across.

"Little Boy" is a as phony as a game of three-card monte.

"Little Boy" answers a question most tear-jerkers wouldn't have the nerve to ask: Can the bombing of Hiroshima be manipulated narratively, if briefly, into a position of warming our hearts? The answer is no.

This is an ersatz version of the '40s based on other movies' ersatz versions, a Candyland-colored world seen from a child's point of view if that child was a 30-ish filmmaker.

One of the most insightful films about religion since the 1977 comedy "Oh, God!," which also wrangled with personal beliefs and unprovable truths.

It will likely appeal to the faithful, but that's as far as it goes.

Emily Watson plays the boy's mother and Tom Wilkinson turns up as a gentle parish priest, so this must have looked better on paper than it does onscreen.

The film has a good cast, and is competently made in a plain-vanilla way, but its greatest appeal will be to those who share its endorsement of traditional religious values.

It takes no genius to guess where this story is going, but whatever dramatic validity the movie had is lost in the have-your-cake-and-eat-it finale. It's a jaw-dropper.

"Believe the impossible," the tagline commands. It's a promise this shameless film has no intention of breaking.

Instead of being rated PG-13, this one should be slapped with the label PG-65, because it's hard to imagine anyone younger than that getting caught up in this earnest, obvious fable.

Somewhere amid the storytelling rubble in "Little Boy" there's a decent message against racial prejudice. But it's suffocated beneath a hokey premise and hopelessly square execution.

This movie could make you pre-diabetic. That's an observation, not a criticism.

[A] cynical, poisonous, deeply stupid film ...

The problem here isn't theological; even if it were in service of a different message entirely, the sheer gracelessness of Monteverde's storytelling would be a massive turnoff.

The entire picture, though well-meaning and even thoughtful, is finally just a little too gooey.

Filled with sleek and often surreal imagery, "The Visit" is served at a cool temperature; it fluctuates from fascinating to banal depending on the logistics under discussion.

