What is happening! If you check out "The Forger," you might well find yourself saying that time and again, as the entertainingly terrible performances keep piling up while the plot dares you not to chuckle at the audacity of it all.

In attempting to spin out its competing storylines, the crime drama "The Forger" never quite gets a handle on either one.

Occasionally a movie comes along that's such an awkward compilation of ideas it fascinates: The Forger, a Boston-set melodrama involving cancer, Impressionist art and deadbeat dads, is only about half that good.

Mr. Travolta teeters between tough-guy menace and soulful, artistic intensity, but you don't ever believe that he can paint or that he can beat up a whole squad of younger, bigger, meaner dudes.

This limply directed tale emerges as a case study of an all too familiar type of art crime: the making of bad movies.

As the film's title suggests, there is something inauthentic about it all.

Scenes generally feel underdeveloped, and transitions abrupt. A suspicion grows that this is one movie that would have fared better as miniseries.

The art-heist plot is pretty by-the-numbers, but Travolta nearly saves it with his doomed air of paternal helplessness.

Nicolas Cage at least manages to bring the occasional jolt of electricity to disposable genre tripe like this. Travolta is practically comatose.

Travolta's face looks immobile, while Plummer and Jennifer Ehle, as Cutter's estranged, strung-out wife, look out of place.

John Travolta wearily plays a master art forger who undertakes the proverbial "one last job" for the benefit of his dying son in Philip Martin's soggy, strictly by-the-numbers crime thriller.

John Travolta's Raymond Cutter doesn't forge anything during the first 40 minutes of The Forger, unless we can count his unconvincing, age-inappropriate mane of hair.

A contrived thriller that wraps a gritty Boston milieu redolent of a Dennis Lehane story around a sentimental heart, with a high-stakes art heist that belongs in a more robustly plotted Hollywood studio picture.

Nothing feels fresh here - not even Christopher Plummer hamming it up as a crusty-coot grandpa - and Philip Martin's routinely polished direction only underscores the cliche-composting of Richard D'Ovidio's script.

On Day One of filming, they must have thrown away the moral compass and taken a group vow to splatter our sensibilities with stylish, gratuitous violence and one "Wait, what?!" moment after another.

Any sense of triumph is purely at the level of stuntcraft. The rest feels less than the sum of the moving parts.

Camping it up, Jackson is hilarious.

Frequently reactionary, bordering on retrograde, bordering on reprobate. But it's also a tremendous amount of fun.

Based on a comic book, Kingsman occasionally betrays its roots but Vaughn has adapted it to fit his unique approach.

Kingsman is not a film for gentlemen. It's for us, the great unwashed, bloodthirsty audience. It's an immaculately engineered, laugh-out-loud appeal to our own depravity.

It relishes low-class ugliness.

Kingsman: The Secret Service is a lively, dashing and amusing motion picture that smartly spoofs and slyly celebrates the James Bond spy-film franchise.

The film tries so hard to be a clever, deconstructive meta-tale, forever winking at the audience about its silly story, that it metas itself into insignificance.

The problem is that Mr. Vaughn has no interest in, or perhaps understanding of, violence as a cinematic tool. He doesn't use violence; he squanders it.

Ultimately, there's little to care about in Kingsman, a spy film that's all dressed up with no place to go.

"Kingsman: The Secret Service" is a youth-quaking riff bursting with affection for vintage 007 action and urbanity, yet one that feels wholly organic in the way it goes about selling this appreciation to a younger crowd.

If you can forgive the failings for at least some of the two-plus-hour running time, "Kingsman" serves up its share of entertaining froth.

Kingsman ... keeps finding new ways to surprise with well-trodden territory.

Vaughn packs the frames with eye-popping detail, and there's an infectious creative energy to his violent action sequences, but the film's hatefulness is hard to stomach.

There's enough action, suspense and all-around fun to make Kingsman: The Secret Service an unexpectedly enjoyable ride.

The less you try to make sense of "Kingsman: The Secret Service," the more you'll enjoy this freewheeling, preposterously violent action comedy from the creators of "Kick-Ass."

This absurdist mashup of spy-movie genres-especially those with gentleman spies-points up the frenzied pace of change with a frenzy of its own, then runs low on comic resources in the process.

Like the rookie who knows that you have to make a few mistakes while following the master, the movie shrugs off its missteps with a wink and a smile that makes them easy to forgive.

The mix of comedy and corpses in "Kingsman" becomes callous and clueless - in addition to seeming about 50 years behind the times.

Things go from far-fetched to insane before it's over, and Vaughn wisely keeps the pace at a healthy clip. But never underestimate his power to floor you.

"Kingsman" is like a high-speed collision between a Jaguar and a jaywalking soccer hooligan. It's ridiculously out of balance, and when you're stuck in the middle, it doesn't seem so funny.

A stylized superspy caper stretching a selection of high-profile actors to roles satirically against type.

Its blend of breathless action with Brit irreverence is like James Bond skipping the martinis and lacing a proper cup of tea with crack.

I will say this: "Kingsman" has some nerve, however misguided.

Slick entertainment, provided the viewer turns off whatever part of their brain is responsible for recognizing and parsing subtext.

A cleverly constructed homage to the Bond pictures, particularly the early ones starring Sean Connery, before everything got so deadly serious in the Daniel Craig era.

Caught between straight-up James Bond and the Austin Powers parody version, Kingsman is a high-octane combo of action and comedy that breathes surreal new life into the big-screen spy game where Bond meets Jason Bourne and Jack Bauer.

The violence flies repellently over the top, and the finale features an extended joke so insanely sexist it sends us out on a seriously sour note.

Borrows the tone, story, characters and humor of "Kick-Ass," only this time in a 007 world instead of Batman's. Nearly everything it does, it does poorly: This one is "Weak-Ass."

If you're not averse to ridiculous violence and un-PC irreverence, your money will be well spent.

Expensive, derivative and boring as mattress ticking masquerading as designer fabric ...

Pure fanboy ecstasy- a muscle-flexing spectacle of cartoon violence and cheeky attitude, which announces its cleverness at every turn.

Everything in Kingsman is familiar, cribbed from James Bond and a thousand other sources, yet every setup gets twisted twice, and then once more, just when you think you're ahead of it.

Countless viewers will relish the brazen zest of its invention.

'Kingsman' is undoubtedly worth the ticket price. Just try not to think too much...

Firth enters new territory with style and grace, anchoring a smart, high-energy movie that eventually runs out of steam.

Whether it's "Alex Rider," "Agent Cody Banks" or "Spy Kids," plenty have tried to adapt the 007 shtick to younger characters, with demonstrably dopey results. In the end, the reason it works for Vaughn is that he's making the film for adults.

A startlingly enjoyable and well-made action film leavened by humor and slicked along by style, made by, for, and about people who've seen far too many Bond films.

Just as the plot threatens to run out of gas, Lin rescues the film with a spate of vastly ridiculous and therefore enjoyable set-pieces, most of which involve means of conveyance designed to make the cars look puny.

Exists purely to showcase how idiotically over-the-top action sequences can become when annoyances like gravity are tossed to the side.

Some of the action sequences are insane. No, really. Absurd, impossible, physics defying, triage-required stuff. No matter. That's the foolish rush of a franchise that must go faster and faster and furiouser and furiouser.

How you feel about "Fast & Furious 6" is a matter of perspective.

Ludicrous, but undeniably fun and surprisingly affectionate, this is really all you could ask of a car crash movie, and more.

Furious Six continues on in the same vein as its predecessor, and may just be my favorite of the lot.

For their own part, Vin Diesel and the "F&F" handlers seem eager to assert how they've molded a series of installments into, yep, a saga, complete with expansive, twisty continuity.

That the movie is so indifferently written shouldn't really be a surprise. The dialogue is just there to mark time between the set pieces, and it's nice to report that Lin has outdone himself in that department.

Fast & Furious 6 is much like the other Fast & Furious films. Which is to say it does its thing pretty well.

There's a Road Runneresque sense of madness that's undeniably infectious. If only it was played off characters who had some sense of reality, who weren't such obvious constructions, and who spoke fewer leaden lines.

It pretty much goes without saying that the script by Chris Morgan, who penned most of the previous installments, is achingly stupid and beyond ludicrous.

[The action is] glorious while it lasts, but then the film goes back to figuring out how to keep its oversized vessel from taking on water. And that's more hard work than it's worth.

A satisfying thrill ride, at least on a par with the earlier installments.

If Fast & Furious 6 were any dumber, the script would have been written in crayon ... [But] in terms of sheer action adrenaline, it may be the best film of the franchise.

A comedown from the high of "Fast Five," but the physics-be-damned stuntwork and girl-on-girl beatdowns keep this series the guiltiest of pleasures.

It's a ripsnorting carmageddon that stylizes automotive annihilation the way John Woo used to choreograph death and destruction with guns and explosions.

Sometimes Fast & Furious 6 is engrossing, sometimes absurd, and some of the action is so outlandish it makes the audience laugh. But whatever it is, it's always some variety of fun.

Happily, amid all the noise, the races -- there's a terrific one through the streets of downtown London -- the crashes and the outlandish stunts, there is some humor, and it's very welcome.

[Director Justin Lin] manages to imbue the material with Hawksian notions of masculinity, group dynamics, and moral authority even as he preserves the franchise's multicultural milieu and gleefully exaggerated action sequences.

Perhaps the most annoying thing about the movie: The final scene sets up yet another sequel.

Lin understands this track inside and out, backwards and forwards - four directions out of countless others in which he spins us.

The plot and dialogue are still stilted and stupid, but that only proves that Justin Lin, who has directed the last four F & Fs, has his priorities straight.

'Fast and Furious 6' is the fastest, funniest and most outlandishly entertaining chapter yet. I'm not kidding, I kinda loved this insanely stupid movie.

Nothing classic here, except the vehicles. But if you're looking for revved-up cars, trucks, tanks and tunnel racing, F&F6 is King Kong on wheels.

True, the movie doesn't know when or how to put the brakes on. It does, however, understand precisely what it is.

The whole thing becomes no different than a six-year-old knocking his toys together and making noises.

It's dumb fun -- nothing more, nothing less.

Sustains its joyful, unpretentious ridiculousness so perfectly that I secretly hoped the "6" meant "hours long"...

Let's just cut to another car chase, OK? That's what this franchise knows how to do, and if that's the kind of popcorn fun you're looking for, "F&F 6" has the goods.

Here's a movie that could easily have been dialogue-free. And probably would have been better for it.

A borderline ridiculous, over-the-top demolition derby that also happens to be a perfectly constructed low-IQ blast.

For my money, "Furious 6'' is more fun than "Skyfall''' and a lot more fun than the deadly dull "Star Trek Into Darkness,'' both of which ask you to take their silly plots way too seriously.

Furious 6 is even cooler and more aerodynamically delirious than its predecessor, if such a thing is even theoretically possible.

Most of the stunts are digital and the pleasures are video-game-stupid.

Lin and his team do an extraordinary job of staging the ever-escalating action sequences, up to a jaw-on-the-floor finale involving various four-wheel vehicles in and around a cargo plane that's trying to take off.

Everyone involved at last seems to understand that the mode here is comic. Previous entries suffered from self-important glumness that gummed up the fun whenever the cars weren't racing.

Has something for everyone, so long as everyone wants their action supercharged.

With its puerile dialogue, daft performances, flat comic repartee and ear-rupturingly loud sound levels, the experience of watching 'Fast & Furious 6' is like listening to death metal pour out of 500-watt speakers while being strapped to a pneumatic drill.

This new entry will only add mightily to the good fortunes of Universal's biggest franchise; no matter how silly and outlandish the action gets -- and it does become ridiculous -- it also delivers the goods its audience expects.

Faithful fans and passersby alike should be more than pleased by this superior piece of classical action craftsmanship.

Look out for a star cameo -- it's the only surprise you'll get from this heap.

The racing sequences are the series' meat and potatoes, but in terms of story, Tokyo Drift barely offers a stalk of asparagus.



True, it tries to be tongue-in-cheek, but really it's just cheek.

A number of questions spring to mind when considering The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift. Can the movies possibly get any faster or more furious? What exactly is the Tokyo Drift? And does Al Gore know what we can do to stop it?

Tokyo Drift is a subculture in search of a compelling story line, and Black's leaden performance makes you pine for the days of Paul Walker.

The whole thing is preposterous. The acting is so awful, some of the worst performances I've seen in a long, long time.

The problem with contemporary Hollywood isn't that so many of the movies it's churning out are based on formula; it's that so many directors take perfectly good formulas and wreck them with bad filmmaking.

The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift is vile, moronic, sexist and possibly harmful to society. As vile, moronic, sexist and possibly harmful entertainments go, however, it is frequently a hoot.

Put aside the topic and title, and you've got a slick car-racing movie set in a sexy metropolis with a likable teen hero that stands just fine on its own.

It quickly tanks, thanks to a lead character with no goals, focus, appeal or intelligence and a lead actor who's just a little too convincing at playing a dunce.

OK, they squeezed one more lap out of this franchise. It's been a fun ride, but it's time to shut things down. If you get my drift.

Despite all the silliness the drift races are gripping, and director Justin Lin captures Tokyo's energy and glitter far better than Sofia Coppola.

This is an exceptionally stupid and irresponsible movie on some levels. But it does score points for style and exotic location.

Unlike the campy 2001 Vin Diesel vehicle that started it all, what's missing in this third incarnation is any sense of fun, overrun by the forced seriousness of a soap opera mistaking itself for serious drama.

The movie teaches us that you can flip your car down a mountain 15 times and walk away from it with two Tylenol.

The kind of movie in which plot and performances (and members of the fairer sex) are treated as accessories, Tokyo Drift is all about the action. And on that count, it won't let you down.

Tokyo Drift's single contribution to the F&F formula comes with the word 'Drift,' which isn't just a reference to what your attention might do while you're watching this flashy, dull movie.

Best viewed as an energetic cartoon, an unintentionally amusing, head-shaking guilty pleasure that will divert those not in the mood for anything more profound than gleaming metal and preening women.

Anyone who still longs to see gaijin yahoos tear up Tokyo's streets will be appeased by the high-speed action in this perfunctory but reasonably efficient entry in the franchise spawned by the 2001 surprise hit The Fast and the Furious.

A crazy-cool screech of a movie, The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift is a complete gas, a mad cross-cultural twist on a near-forgotten film genre that keeps your eyes glued to the screen.

Think of the countless car chases you've seen at the movies. Then catch Tokyo Drift to understand how this movie, as silly as it is, offers something different and fresh. For fans of the genre, that's a stunt worth getting revved up for.

It delivers all the races and crashes you could possibly desire, and a little more.

The cars only flirt with destruction. And the movie only flirts with entertainment.

To call it a great film would be to oversell it, but as a fun, fascinating work of kinetic art, a 100-minute visual spectacle, it's a knockout.

For all its crashes and flash, this is a movie that drifts away as we watch it. Muscle cars and all, it's often a waste of gas.

Director Justin Lin (Better Luck Tomorrow) goes back to basics, back to what everyone liked about the original, namely mindless car-racing fun.

This thing hums along like a rebuilt vintage turbine compared with [director] Lin's previous, unfortunate Annapolis.

Going to Japan for this movie was a smart move by the filmmakers. Not only does it provide new backdrops for the races, but the F&F movies (as their fans call them) have drawn a huge international fan base.

The adrenaline-charged racing sequences have a kind of brutally modern elegance. But when their fingers slip from the nitro fuel-injection buttons and the teens are forced to say a few syllables, big chunks of the movie come to a tire-screeching halt.

The thin story and thinner characters are just setups for the race sequences, which are punctuated by lavish parties where lithe women seem to outnumber the guys by a 5-to-1 ratio.

Manna from gearhead heaven, the third and most guiltily pleasurable Furious emits the crude thrills of a 1950s drag-racing cheapie, only with souped-up Toyotas and Nissans in place of gas-guzzling hot rods.

Aside from trying my patience, the film offered one important lesson: never again attend a movie with the words 'fast' and 'furious' both in the title.

The third movie in the Bad News Bears series, a notable turkey, went to Japan. That trip spells certain doom for the Fast and the Furious franchise as well.

So what if the movie dumbs down Japanese culture to a bad yakuza movie and features Japanese characters who can barely speak Japanese? The cars are the stars here. Everything else is lost in translation.

You've seen it all before, except that you haven't, not quite this way.

Anderson moves further from conventional storytelling with each new film, and closer to something more intuitive, more damning, more true. He hasn't made it there yet. God help us when he does.

Some storylines conclude, some collide, others dissipate. But the film's main crime is this: It's boring.

Joaquin Phoenix is perfectly cast as the perpetually befuddled Doc, a private detective of sorts who immerses himself in pot in the Los Angeles of 1970.

Although it's not as hermetic and impenetrable as The Master, Inherent Vice still comes off as a giant inside joke to anyone who hasn't read Pynchon's novel.

Inherent Vice is a sun-glared, neon-limned muddle of noir plotline and potheaded jokery that not only doesn't make sense, but actually seems to try hard not to.

I truly wanted to like the film. Unfortunately it is a huge letdown, an almost unbroken and utterly unsuccessful sequence of wrong choices.

Cockamamie, kaleidoscopic, languidly compelling ...

Even with a third eye on your forehead and peyote in your bloodstream, you won't be able to follow this long and winding road any better than Doc does.

"Inherent Vice" is an aggressively weird movie, which you should take not as a warning but as a compliment and an invitation to see it, to let its stoner vibes wash all over you.

Paul Thomas Anderson's hippie noir seems completely stoned: inarticulate, confused and prone to giggling at unknown jokes. Pynchon fans might tolerate it.

Both times I saw "Inherent Vice," I experienced roughly the same contradictory responses: delight undercut by puzzlement, followed by a happier sort of puzzlement.

The picture is all over the map. Nothing coheres.

Despite the film's frustrations, it must be acknowledged that Anderson -- a master of the multi-strand, multi-character, multi-meaning plot -- is the perfect director to adapt Pynchon, in terms of both craft and spirit.

More than just an adaptation of Thomas Pynchon's 2009 novel, the film engages with the author's literature on the whole, attempting a filmic analogue to his virtuosic prose.

Inherent Vice lives happily on the outer limits, where the noir form and its history are at least as important as the content.

Anderson seems to have lost all real pleasure in filmmaking; he seems to feel it's a kind of duty now, the weight of his various influences weighing him down and crushing the bright, grasping, sensitive artist who made Boogie Nights and Magnolia.

Too often, the film gets distracted with things to giggle at, and breaks the spell.

This "sunshine noir" bakes your brain, in a good way.

At first glance, Inherent Vice might seem to be a detective story. Look a little closer, however, and it becomes clear that this is Paul Thomas Anderson's idea of a comedy.

There are, of course, two ways to experience Inherent Vice: with the brain on or the brain off. Both work. The latter is a good time, the former more illuminating.

[P.T. Anderson] is a terrific stylist ... and the scattershot pleasures he's peddling in 'Inherent Vice' may well satisfy those who like style more than substance, or maybe who like their style with substances.

[Paul Thomas Anderson's new movie] is a kind of companion piece to Altman's The Long Goodbye, and it's the sort of failure that only a director of his talents could make.

I love Anderson's ambition, but it is awfully hard to make a movie about a culture adrift that doesn't make its audience feel the same. Inherent Vice runs a punishing 148 minutes, not enough of which are funny or sad enough to hold us.

Think of it as a film that's meant to be experienced, more than fully understood.

Trying to pare back Pynchon without killing the joke was the challenge. Anderson has done a remarkable job of replicating the crazy kaleidoscope of crime, dope and raunch the novelist conjured.

Inherent Vice, brilliantly scored by Jonny Greenwood, is an Anderson head trip, impure jazz with a reverb that can leave you dazed, confused and even annoyed. But at no time do you doubt that you are in the hands of a master.

Since most of Paul Thomas Anderson's Inherent Vice was meant to be impenetrable, the best approach, as you watch it drift by, is to savor the dreamy images and druggy jokes and forget about penetrating the plot.

Anderson, as always, knows exactly what he's doing with the camera. Scenes are often staged in the haze of smoke or fog; sometimes characters are introduced late into the frame, or action happens just out of it.

Mr. Anderson has condensed the book with surgical precision, ditching certain subplots, characters and locales while retaining the novel's sociopolitical tug, barbed asides and chokingly funny details.

The fact that perhaps 90 percent of the dialogue comes from Pynchon poses an authorship question that doesn't exist with Anderson's other movies. Still, the deftness with comedy and actors are at a level that few filmmakers working today could achieve.

Phoenix's extraordinary performance pulls the movie's infinite strands together. But this twisty tale takes so many foggy turns that you'll want to approach it with a plan.

Inherent Vice is half-baked Raymond Chandler. With too much emphasis on the baked part.

"Inherent Vice," meandering even by Anderson's standards, is easily the worst of his movies, a soporific 2 /&#8322;- hour endurance test.

A huge relief, as if a giant gas bubble had finally, with great effort, reached the surface of the pond with a cathartic blurp.

"Inherent Vice" is not only the first Pynchon movie; it could also, I suspect, turn out to be the last. Either way, it is the best and the most exasperating that we'll ever have.

Never quite transcending the sum of its agreeably disparate parts, IV is less groovy than gnarled and goofy, but in a studied way. Call it an acquired taste with a kinky savor.

I can't wait to see it again.

It's actually less coherent than Pynchon, no small feat. It's not shallow, though.

As with Magnolia and Punch-Drunk Love, the director has created another vivid Los Angeles, one that doesn't lean too hard on its pop-culture references to TV's Adam-12 or Neil Young's gentle Harvest album.

Makes Howard Hawks' legendarily confusing 'The Big Sleep' look like a model of narrative coherence.

Anderson's seventh feature film is a groovy, richly funny stoner romp.

Offers a only a pale and narrow physical recreation of such a vibrant place and time.

The story is dense, overlong, and studded with references that will make sense only to those intimate with Nolan's previous excursions into Batmanhood.

There was an opportunity here for Nolan to show us another way, to (again) stretch the boundaries of what is possible in a superhero film. Instead, alas, the latter half of The Dark Knight Rises retreats toward conventionality.

I'm not arguing that Rises should be Singin' in the Rain. But its Wagnerian ambitions are not matched by its material. It hasn't earned its darkness.

The biggest surprise may just be how satisfying Nolan has made his farewell to a Dark Knight trilogy that many fans will wish he'd extend to a 10-part series, at least.

Others will see it differently, but for me this is a disappointingly clunky and bombastic conclusion to a superior series -- Nolan's biggest and worst movie to date.

The director and cowriter/brother Jonathan Nolan pay heed to Wayne's wounded emotional arc. And the film is a feat of painstakingly crafted closure.

TDKR completes on the great trilogies in movie history.

Yes, The Dark Knight Rises. And rises. And rises some more.

Nolan knows where the good stuff will be mined: big IMAX action scenes juxtaposed with intimate moments of dialogue.

Spoiler alert: "The Dark Knight Rises" will earn a billion dollars, be the subject of more master's theses than "Citizen Kane" and win the Academy Award for best picture.

This could - should - have been a swifter movie, but it sends the Batguy out in style. And let's face it, he's earned it.

At over two hours and forty minutes long, with repeated scenes of bone-crunching violence and a maddeningly unrelenting percussive score by Hans Zimmer, The Dark Knight Rises is something of an ordeal to sit through.

Arguably the biggest, darkest, most thrilling and disturbing and utterly balls-out spectacle ever created for the screen.

Production-wise, effects-wise, Nolan's movie - much of its big action sequences shot with Imax cameras - is spectacular.

A fitting conclusion to an artful trilogy, culminating with satisfying dazzle, despite some notable flaws.

Nolan's finale gives us the inevitable with generous portions of suspense, surprise and delicious shock.

Moments are stretched. Every recollection must be illustrated by a flashback. Character motivations shift on a dime, and if you understand even half of what's going on -- not generally, but specifically -- you'll be doing better than most.

A satisfying and often breathtaking tale of good and evil.

At a time when Hollywood seems incapable of doing anything that isn't a grand-scale fantasy, Nolan has hijacked the form to bring it down to earth.

In case you'd forgotten - and the summer of 2012 has given us much to forget - this is what a superhero movie is supposed to look like.

Speaking lines they cannot possibly understand, not one actor makes any attempt to be believable. So manufactured and synthetic that they eventually lose all sense of reality, they're like reconstituted orange juice and processed cheese.

The grave and satisfying finish to Mr. Nolan's operatic bat-trilogy.

A disturbing experience we live through as much as a film we watch, this dazzling conclusion to director Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy is more than an exceptional superhero movie, it is masterful filmmaking by any standard.

Saddled with the impossible expectations surrounding the final chapter in his trilogy of Batman movies, Nolan surprises by one-upping you. He gives you more than you expected.

While director Christopher Nolan and star Christian Bale's epic of criminality and all-consuming conviction ultimately falls a bit short, their Batman trilogy ends with a suitably thrilling mix of guts and glory.

[Nolan] has made a completely satisfying movie with The Dark Knight Rises, one steeped enough in self-contained mythology to reward hard-core fans while giving less invested viewers a rousing, adroitly executed piece of popcorn entertainment.

This is a sequel that succeeds, meeting expectations built ridiculously high by fan culture and savvy marketing. In the end, Nolan's Dark Knight rises to the occasion.

The script, by Nolan and his brother Jonathan, takes a few vague pokes at Wall Street and the financial elite but mainly revives the ponderous psychodrama of the first movie.

What worked beautifully in "The Dark Knight" seems overworked and almost ridiculously grim in "The Dark Knight Rises."

An epic and then-some send-off to a character, and a franchise, that made it safe for superheroes to get serious.

Christopher Nolan's dramatically and emotionally satisfying wrap-up to the Dark Knight trilogy adroitly avoids cliches and gleefully subverts your expectations at every turn.

The film begins slowly with a murky plot and too many new characters, but builds to a sensational climax.

As a cop tells a younger partner when Batman first reappears, "Boy, you're in for a show tonight, son." And, indeed, it's been quite a show.

If the film is not quite the achievement "The Dark Knight" was -- and maybe that's the real question -- it's still a fitting end to a very ambitious series.

The Dark Knight Rises ultimately justifies its length (in fact, a good argument could be made for a longer cut) and the last 45 minutes is nothing short of spectacular.

It is, through and through, a Nolan movie - a brooding, complicated film that asks that you come to the theater prepared and that you watch the movie engaged.

Chaos reigns for much of The Dark Knight Rises, often in big, beautiful, IMAX-size scenes that only Nolan could have conceived.

The history of Batman's burden is, however, increasingly cumbersome, and it's Mr. Bane who finally makes the pertinent point: "Gotham is beyond saving and must be allowed to die."

"Merely great" feels like the most backhanded of compliments, but when a filmmaker is coming off a one-two punch of pop masterpieces like The Dark Knight and Inception, expectations get invariably raised for what comes next.

This Knight not only rises, it also cuts deep -- not just as spectacular entertainment but also as harrowing drama.

My faith that a truly important piece can be gleaned from these tales of costumed champions has been broken.

It's spectacular, to be sure, but also remarkable for its all-encompassing gloom.

This is the problem when you're an exceptional, visionary filmmaker. When you give people something extraordinary, they expect it every time. Anything short of that feels like a letdown.

The Dark Knight Rises only rarely starts to tremor under the weight of its own portent, and is not without its own sly humor. Well done.

For once a melodrama with pulp origins convinces viewers that it can be the modern equivalent to Greek myths or a Jonathan Swift satire. TDKR is that big, that bitter -- a film of grand ambitions and epic achievement.

Potent and provocative, The Dark Knight Rises is the King Daddy of summer movie epics.

Retains the moral urgency and serious-minded pulp instincts that have made the Warners franchise a beacon of integrity in an increasingly comicbook-driven Hollywood universe.

Big-time Hollywood filmmaking at its most massively accomplished, this last installment of Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy makes everything in the rival Marvel universe look thoroughly silly and childish.

The way the various strands tie up is a mite predictable, but it's satisfying nonetheless.

Simply marvelous entertainment.

Freeman, who is simply a great actor, a man who has never struck a false note in his career, both narrates this tale and anchors it with his authoritative playing.

A testament to the human spirit...

A passing reference to 'The Count of Monte Cristo' offers a partial clue to what makes this movie compelling.

...a throwback to the kind of serious, literate drama Hollywood used to make.

It's a simple story elegantly, cleverly told, not to mention expertly acted.

Without a single riot scene or horrific effect, it tells a slow, gentle story of camaraderie and growth, with an ending that abruptly finds poetic justice in what has come before.

It's the no-bull performances that hold back the flood of banalities.

It wanders down subplots at every opportunity and ignores an abundance of narrative exit points before settling on the aforementioned finale.

If the film is perhaps a little slow in its middle passages, maybe that is part of the idea, too, to give us a sense of the leaden passage of time, before the glory of the final redemption.

The Shawshank Redemption is all about hope and, because of that, watching it is both uplifting and cathartic.

It's a devoutly old-fashioned, spiritually uplifting prison drama about two lifers who must break their emotional shackles before they can finally become free men.

Thanks to fine performances and beautiful photography, you get that inspirational jump-start frame after frame.

With his gift for rapt pauses, for caressing just the right syllable, Freeman can make a speech like that sound like one of the philosophical nuggets of the ages.

Think of this stylish, quirky and quite grisly feature from Marjane Satrapi as a meeting of Psycho, Dexter and Dr. Doolittle.

Casting Ryan Reynolds as a small-town geek who has trouble getting a date may seem as pointless as taking a loving cup to a Leafs game, but the bright-eyed Canadian star makes this dark, dark comedy twinkle with offbeat appeal.

A deeply warped, darkly funny and thoroughly depraved horror comedy. Ryan Reynolds gives one of his best performances.

It's the most likable Ryan Reynolds has been in a film in, well, forever, basically. He's not necessarily good, mind you.

The film is mostly a mess, albeit an occasionally endearing one.

The big question here is why any of "The Voices," as crisply made and stylish as it is, should matter or entertain. The cold truth is that it doesn't.

Grisly but not especially suspenseful, tongue-in-cheek without any real wit, "The Voices" aims to hit the intersection of horror and comedy but tumbles into an uncanny valley of tedious creepiness.

Simultaneously bizarre, humorous, disturbing and suspenseful.

Like most slasher lampoons, The Voices tries to be as bloody and creepy as flicks that take psycho-killing more seriously. This is a major waste of time in a movie that's about a half-hour longer than its setup justifies.

A few big stars working in a minor key, a bit of macabre indie-film quirk, and presto! Instant junk.

The Voices wants it all ways at once, and while its severe shifts in tone are certainly bold (and intentional), they also prevent the film from properly functioning under any genre umbrella.

Like it or not, The Voices aligns us with a murderer.

Ryan Reynolds is chillingly perfect as a nice-guy factory worker struggling with schizophrenia and murderous impulses in this tonally wild indie, which is nearly too horrifying to be funny - but not quite.

Fanciful, sweetly unbalanced and just right for the part, Mr. Reynolds gives his best performance in years.

The pic's tone is all over the place, from the bright red razor slash that underscores its opening titles to the "Amelie"-esque flights of fancy along the way.

A loopy, ghastly, funny, morbid and unforgettable 100 minutes

A wild, occasionally hilarious genre crossbreed that features a terrific performance from Ryan Reynolds.

DiCaprio has hinted before that comedy might be his natural calling -- think of Catch Me If You Can -- but his energy here is not just fun, it's discovery.

For three hours the movie operates at a ridiculous comedic pitch. You never forget you're at the circus. You never lose site of the lawlessness, the reckless pleasure, the sheer lunacy and lack of regulation.

Scorsese unleashes a furious, yet exquisitely controlled, kinetic energy, complete with a plunging and soaring camera, mercurial and conspicuous special effects, counterfactual scenes, subjective fantasies, and swirling choreography on a grand scale.

The Wolf of Wall Street is a magnificent black comedy: fast, funny, and remarkably filthy.

Man, does this movie have a savage bite.

I couldn't buy it, and couldn't wait for the hollow spectacle to end.

It's hard not to feel there is a better revisit of Scorsese's crime gem already in theaters, David O. Russell's American Hustle.

Though "Raging Bull" must still go down as Martin Scorsese's greatest achievement, "The Wolf of Wall Street" makes the race for No. 2 a lot more interesting.

As with Goodfellas, Scorsese's helpless attraction to the very behavior he wants to indict becomes the movie's serrated edge.

Scorsese has pulled off something tricky with Wolf: He's given us a thrilling cautionary tale about a guy who never for a second seems the slightest bit sorry for what he's done. If anything, he just had the bad luck to get caught.

DiCaprio doesn't seem terribly comfortable in the role despite all his strutting and posturing.

At the highest level, it really is about getting your own, forget those down below. If so, that could have easily come across in two hours, it didn't need three.

Why would a man cheat people out of millions and then spend it on hookers, 'ludes and stupid pranks? Hey, why wouldn't you?

As Jordan Belfort, a New York stockbroker who spent years cheerfully defrauding investors, DiCaprio is positively reptilian; he spits out his lines with a nasty glee. You're both horrified and enchanted by this creature - a monster in Armani.

It's like "Goodfellas," only (slightly) more legal, which is very much the point.

Scorsese, as always, knows exactly what he is doing. Although it's long, the movie is never less than entertaining.

Various Cheech-and-Chong-style slapstick scenarios play out repeatedly, just with different props.

A vital and troubling document of the present ...

Scorsese presents Belfort as a charismatic Caligula. He is an endlessly fascinating character who holds viewers' attention from beginning to end.

"The Wolf of Wall Street" is a fleet-footed three hours of startling moments, 99 percent of them hedonistic and hilarious.

The Wolf of Wall Street isn't a celebration of bad behavior: It's a condemnation.

"The Wolf of Wall Street" remains one-note even at is most outre, an episodic portrait of rapaciousness in which decadence escalates into debauchery escalates into depravity - but, miraculously, not death.

So it's a relief and a pleasant surprise that Wall Street, despite some missteps and the need for an editor, mostly manages to live up to the interest generated by its kinetic trailers and the heavy hand of hype.

If you're down with a character arc that's as short as a crack pipe and equally resistant to temperance, then Martin Scorsese's latest picture is your chance to howl.

Oh, my, my. Martin Scorsese's The Wolf of Wall Street is outrageous, an offense against modesty, a shameless celebration of bad conduct.

This sprawling mock epic about a sleazy penny stock whiz contains scenes of astonishing black-comic brilliance, but it's also solipsistic and exhausting.

At three hours, The Wolf Of Wall Street is Scorsese's longest movie (barely edging out Casino). It's also his crassest, his loudest, maybe his funniest.

As thrilling a filmmaker as Martin Scorsese continues to be, and as wild a performance as Leonardo DiCaprio dishes up as its morally bankrupt master of the universe, The Wolf of Wall Street seems almost entirely unnecessary.

This is good but not great Scorsese.

The story's relentless, unvarying rhythm-malfeasance, consumption, more malfeasance, more consumption-leaves the audience drained and annoyed.

Digging into deep-pocket gluttony, Martin Scorsese's dark comedy ''The Wolf of Wall Street'' highlights a world rich in drugs, fast cars and private jets. The American dream is amplified, yet those indulging in it are never satisfied.

Wolf is delivered, almost all the way through, at the same pitch of extreme aggression. It's relentless, deafening, deadening, and, finally, unilluminating.

Scorsese's camera energizes all he can, in every way he can as a propulsive filmmaker. But around the 80-minute mark the bullet train of a protagonist begins to run in circles, however maniacally.

Martin Scorsese's epic tale of debauchery feels overlong and sometimes misses its mark, but it's the director's raunchiest, funniest film yet.

Talk about a high-risk reward. Martin Scorsese's "The Wolf of Wall Street" is a delirious, manic, push-the-limits comedy of gaudy amorality that tests the audience's taste.

Whether he's on the phone luring someone to send him a check for a dicey investment, or flopping around the floor after ingesting too many quaaludes, DiCaprio hits the jackpot.

A veritable orgy of immorality, each scene making the same point only more and more outrageously, the action edited with Scorsese's usual manic exuberance but to oh-so-monotonous effect.

Like Scorsese's After Hours, it's absurdly funny, though more akin to Goodfellas in substance and structure.

As a highly detailed portrait of true-life corruption and bad behavior in the financial sector, Wolf is pushy and hollow, too much of a bad thing, like a three-hour cold call from the boiler room that leaves you wondering, "What have I just been sold?"

Working with a gutsy script by The Sopranos' Terence Winter, Scorsese is jabbing hard at America's jackpot culture. The laughs are merciless and nonstop, every one with a sting in its tail.

The Wolf of Wall Street is a slippery beast, both beguiling and repellent on the surface, more difficult to pin down the deeper you look, and shifty in ways that I found intoxicating.

The sets are ravishing. The cinematography dazzles. There's so much going on that you don't blink for fear that you might miss something.

The Wolf of Wall Street plays modern tragedy as epic farce, reminding us just how much fun Scorsese can be when he's in a playful mood.

Handsome, sporadically amusing and admittedly never boring - but also bloated, redundant, vulgar, shapeless and pointless ...

The wages of greed and excess portrayed in grand, operatic, often very funny style.

A terrific and fascinating movie, but it stops short of masterpiece territory.

A big, unruly bacchanal of a movie that huffs and puffs and nearly blows its own house down, but holds together by sheer virtue of its furious filmmaking energy and a Leonardo DiCaprio star turn so electric it could wake the dead.

Like an alternate version of Network in which Faye Dunaway cannibalizes the conscientious William Holden character, Nightcrawler cleverly dispenses with any debate about the tyranny of ratings and the erosion of privacy.

It seems like a lot of satirical hue and cry about a social problem I'm not sure the nation is currently plagued by. Are local TV news stations really conducting daily bidding wars over the goriest footage random freelancers can bring them?

Crashes and crime scenes are his bread and butter. He is driven. He is innovative. He is happy. He is also a monster - a fiend who preys on people at their weakest and worst moments.

Now 33 years old, Gyllenhaal is the same age that De Niro was in Taxi Driver and, like him, he is learning to channel an eerie, inner charisma, offering it up in glimpses and glimmers rather than all at once.

For a first-time director, Gilroy demonstrates an uncommon assurance, not only in his audacious tonal shifts but in the stellar work he elicits from his cast and crew.

A mesmerizing cipher, Lou is a spiritual descendant of Robert De Niro's Travis Bickle in Taxi Driver, and of the withholding protagonists in the existential French crime films of Robert Bresson and Jean-Pierre Melville

After a few minutes you know everything about Louis you're going to know; the only surprise in Nightcrawler is the level of grotesqueness it achieves.

[Gilroy] wants Louis, who perpetrates some ghastly escapades, to epitomize the sick soul of media exploitation, but he also celebrates him as an entrepreneurial go-getter who is just giving us hypocrites what we secretly (or not-so-secretly) crave.

Howard's intrusive score enhances the sense that Nightcrawler is a movie and nothing more. Which is fine, of course. But the movie's movie-ness makes you aware that a statement is being made without articulating what it is.

It's hard not to be fascinated by the dark places Gyllenhaal goes here. But "Nightcrawler" falls short as social commentary or even psychological yarn. Like Louis, it talks a good game that crumbles as you ponder it.

It's a 21st-century takedown of the media's pandering ''if it bleeds, it leads'' ethos and the ghoulish nightcrawlers who live by it.

A movie for the pleasure of movie audiences pretending to be shocked by a story of ghoulish media.

'Nightcrawler' manages to be a scathing look at ambition and journalistic sensationalism while still delivering as a dark thriller.

Nightcrawler savages the news media's ratings-driven ethic (a most unethical ethic) with such force, it brings to mind Paddy Chayefsky and Sidney Lumet's Network.

"Nightcrawler" executes its ideas with tremendous craft and cool, and the courageous and counterintuitive pairing of its leads - Russo is 60, and Gyllenhaal 33 - produces two electrical, interlocking performances and undeniable erotic chemistry.

This isn't fun, escapist entertainment but, when it works, it's fascinating and compelling and makes us take a hard look at what TV news is selling and where it's getting the product.

A smart, engaged film powered by an altogether remarkable performance by Jake Gyllenhaal, it is melodrama grounded in a disturbing reality, an extreme scenario that is troubling because it cuts close to the bone.

It's a solid first time out in any event, entertainingly obvious at some points, obvious-obvious at others, and jazzed to have a rich subject and a star willing to run with it.

Nightcrawler serves as a phenomenal showcase for Gyllenhaal, who is never less than riveting . A full package of tics, tension and breathless patter, this self-taught entrepreneur stops at nothing, evoking a Taxi Driver for the TMZ age.

Writer-director Dan Gilroy wants it both ways - snarling comedy and gripping thriller - and for the most part he gets what he wants.

For his directing debut, Gilroy is out for the contact high of that Mean Streets vibe, and Gyllenhaal and Russo deliver it to him in spades.

Dan Gilroy's "Nightcrawler" is a dark dream of a thriller, full of evil that floats like a toxic cloud across an already tainted city.

True to its title, creeps under the viewer's skin much like the predatory title character, who restlessly cruises through this modern-day media allegory like Travis Bickle's long-lost, hyper-wired West Coast cousin.

One of the year's most satisfying and original thrillers.

No matter how extreme or unlikely the scenario, we want to know how Lou will handle it. Gyllenhaal makes this antihero funny, scary and fearlessly strange.

Nightcrawler curves and hisses its way into your head with demonic skill. This is a deliciously twisted piece of work. And Gyllenhaal, coiled and ready to spring, is scarily brilliant.

There are moments that are too macabre and outlandish, but Gilroy steers the movie just this side of farce, just this side of Chayefsky, and keeps it all within a realistic framework.

"Nightcrawler" is the kind of movie that rarely hits multiplexes anymore, an edgy, pulpy thriller with a social conscience and a vicious satirical streak.

"Jon Stewart could learn a thing from Gilroy's rightly ruthless excoriation."

A compelling and altogether impressive directorial debut for screenwriter Dan Gilroy

A modest and effectively executed urban thriller, suspenseful and entertaining in its clammy, overwrought way.

Gilroy ... is directing for the first time here, but he clearly has not only an understanding of actors, but an appreciation for image.

Despite the familiarity of its themes ... Gilroy's clever, skeezy little noir is worth a prowl.

Nightcrawler is well worth seeing just for Gyllenhaal's spectacularly creepy performance.

A thick film of sleaze coats every frame of "Nightcrawler," a movie that takes a hard look at media culture and provides Jake Gyllenhaal a terrific opportunity to creep us all out.

Thirty pounds lighter, all cheekbones and bulging eyes, Gyllenhaal plays one of the year's most memorable characters in this dark, provocative drama.

The drama feels heightened and overwrought, and yet it works; you can see Nina's cold-eyed desperation, and Lou's creepy rapture as he realizes that he can get a shot that nobody else has.

It ultimately proves questionable and unconvincing, but in this case, failure to launch is noble. It keeps you creeped out and fascinated.

In real life, nobody could obstruct as much justice as Louis does and get away with it. Still, Nightcrawler is unnerving because we never know just how far Louis will go.

It scuttles ahead, wide-eyed, antennae waving, on a journey to the end of the night, and toward a future when nothing will not be shown.

First and foremost, the film is a showcase for its wiry and wired star, and for the fascinatingly amoral anti-hero he brings to life.

Gyllenhaal, who summons career-best work, simply couldn't have played this character a few years ago.

Like his erratic protagonist, Gilroy doesn't always know when to settle down or call it quits, and the film's constant shifts of tone can grow tiring, even if the action as a whole never gets boring.

A feast of capital-A acting that's sometimes amusing to watch but not believable for so much as a second.

If Billy Wilder's 'Ace in the Hole' and 'Network' had a mutant baby, it would probably look like Dan Gilroy's 'Nightcrawler'

A fantastic, sleek and fun satire.

