The movie swings - physically, musically, psychologically, racially.

It would be an insult to call Chazelle a "promising" filmmaker, as this movie doesn't indicate mere potential - it is evidence of authentic, sometimes blazing talent.

Such a cooked-up piece of claptrap that I half expected Darth Vader to pick up the baton.

'Whiplash' is electric from beginning to end, a musical story of obsession, frustration and outright cruelty built on two knockout performances.

Primarily two actors and a jazz score, but the result is a crackling good drama that feels almost like a thriller. Smart, stylish and intense.

The film works, often wonderfully, as a remarkable visualization of jazz music - you feel it and breathe it, just like the musicians - and as a showcase for the two actors at its center.

Ultimately, "Whiplash" isn't just about jazz - and it's not necessary to be a fan of the music to enjoy the film - but about life.

The film's true subject is innate talent - for music, writing, painting, sculpture, plumbing, whatever - and the superhuman lengths we sometimes have to go to in order to wring it out of ourselves.

At times, it evidences the qualities of a can't-turn-away car wreck: brutal and horrific yet compelling. At other times, it has the rhythms of a sports drama with all the ups and downs inherent in that genre.

An intense, unmelodious, highly amped and probably unrealistic drama set in the fictionalized Schaefer Conservatory in New York.

Quite simply, Whiplash is one of the year's best films.

It's as much a horror movie as it is a keenly realized indie about jazz, about art, about what it takes to claim greatness.

[Simmons gives] a crisp and nasty performance. The bullied submit, eyes cast down, relieved when they're not the target of his hectoring. His insults are torn from the misogynistic, homophobic playbook.

Whiplash darts along at an urgent bebop pace and asks questions applicable to most fields: How much are you willing to endure for the chance to be great? And what if cruelty isn't a better motivator than kindness?

Oh, yes. It's that good.

Whiplash is, at best, heightened realism. There's no way that Fletcher could have gotten away with his teaching methods without serious legal - or physical - pushback long before Andrew comes along. But, as drama, it's a crackling good time.

A bruising, anger-scarred music academy drama not to be missed.

Simmons is always good. Here, he is great. His brilliant performance is, if not the single best of the year, certainly among them.

At its best, "Whiplash" conveys with pungent detail the striving of young people eager to make their bones in a Manhattan that's as foul and forbidding as it is seductive.

This is just a sports drama with a brass section.

To watch J.K. Simmons in "Whiplash" is always to be wondering what it is you're seeing and what is going on in this man's mind.

"Whiplash" is true to its title. It throws you around with impunity, yet Chazelle exerts tight, exacting control over his increasingly feverish and often weirdly comic melodrama.

Even with its flaws, "Whiplash" is very much worth seeing. With its shotgun acting, fierce direction and galvanizing music, it nails the most important notes.

It's one of the most disturbing entertaining movies I've seen in a long while.

"Whiplash" could become the first film to be picketed by the soccer moms of America. Let battle commence.

The editing (by Tom Cross) matches the film's jazz rhythms, up to and including a climactic drum solo that's more hold-your-breath suspenseful than a dozen superhero rooftop battles.

If the story is simple, Chazelle spins off on it, the way jazz players reinterpret old standards. His camera comes in close on instruments, fingers, blisters. Shots are cut together in clear but furious flurries.

A movie you feel as much as you see, and what you see is both exquisite and excruciating.

Damien Chazelle stages S&M drum duels with strafing mastery. And Miles Teller and J.K. Simmons will blow you away. Beat the drums for a Simmons Oscar, and add a cymbal crash for Whiplash. It's electrifying.

The title Whiplash is dead-on. That's what it is; that's what it gives you.

Directing with a cool, steady hand that renounces shaky-cam the way Fletcher would denounce rock 'n roll, and getting strong performances from his two leads, Chazelle provides a potent metaphor for artistic ambition as both a religion and an addiction.

Music instruction and combat are rarely linked in movies, and particularly not in the singularly riveting way they come together in Whiplash.

Ultimately, what keeps Whiplash from becoming a joyride whose effects last only as long as its adrenaline rush are Simmons and Teller's performances and Chazelle's insight into Andrew's personality.

"Whiplash" will instill not just respect but awe. It also happens to feature a pair of performances that eclipse all else around them.

This is a student film in rampant overdrive and it will attract attention and offers. So I just hope Mr. Chazelle doesn't believe too much in his film's dumb message.

You may not even notice the flaws, since we get so many compelling layers to sift through.

It may get a few things wrong, but it aims at, and finally achieves, an authenticity at once more exalted and more primal than mere verisimilitude.

Even if you couldn't care less about jazz drumming ... Whiplash is a thrill to watch.

More Full Metal Jacket than Dead Poet's Society, the film is an epic battle of wills between two fanatical artists, one doing everything in his power to painfully make a master out of the other.

Rarely has a movie shown so viscerally the utter pain that can accompany the bliss of creating good music.

You don't have to be a jazz fan for Whiplash to zap you with its thrumming live-wire beat (although it doesn't hurt). If you can appreciate the sight of two totally dialed-in performers simmering until they boil over, that's enough.

The two stars are fully committed to the concept that the pursuit of perfection doesn't always triumph, and the film pounds in the temples with the feverish tempo of a jazz riff.

If Whiplash doesn't quite hang together, Chazelle has still managed to pack it with some wonderful ideas ...

Whiplash is the second feature written and directed by Damien Chazelle, who expanded it out of a short that played at Sundance last year, and he's a true discovery.

Think John Houseman in "The Paper Chase'' with a touch of Jack Webb's Marine drill sergeant in 'The D.I.,' and you'll get an idea of the extreme hazing and mind games from Simmons that push Teller toward the breaking point.

This is a muscular and accomplished work of kinetic cinema built around two tremendous acting performances ...

Whiplash scrapes the far edge of crazy passion. It never apologizes.

Guaranteed to send you out of the theater on an adrenaline high.

The film is gripping, funny and inspiring: Imagine "The Karate Kid" with Mr. Miyagi played by R. Lee Armey.

Demolishes the cliches of the musical-prodigy genre, investing the traditionally polite stages and rehearsal studios of a topnotch conservatory with all the psychological intensity of a battlefield or sports arena.

Christopher Walken plays a gangster who can fix anything; maybe he should have taken charge of the film.

Jersey Boys comes to life only toward the end.

It's glossy and entertaining but also safe and conventional. If my father had lived to age 72, he would have loved this movie. This is your target audience.

At times the movie version of "Jersey Boys" captures the electric excitement of the musical, but for every soaring moment, there are 10 minutes of bickering or brooding.

Curiously moribund ...

[The movie] hauls out just about every showbiz cliche in the catalog.

"Eastwood's got a feel for music (he composed the scores for most of his recent films). But he doesn't have a particular flair for musical staging."

The film is a funny mix of formulaic and fresh. The numbers are too polished - there's no sense of discovery. But the songs and their harmonies are evergreen.

Aptly if somewhat awkwardly, Jersey Boys finds its most soulful moment in a movie version of a curtain call. Only it's pretty complicated when a movie's most rousing moment comes as the closing credits roll.

Valli and the Four Seasons' story might well have been true, but as drama, it's thin and occasionally dull.

What makes Jersey Boys work is its Rashomon device of letting each member of the group tell part of the story from his point of view. And it's all woven together by those familiar, catchy songs.

As deliberately, consciously old-fashioned as it sometimes is, Clint Eastwood's "Jersey Boys" is also often fresh, with a self-aware sense of fun ...

Trust me, you've watched condominium lobby channels that are more exciting than this.

"Jersey Boys" hits the high notes with ease, and offers the low ones for contemplation.

Eastwood, directing his 33d film, adds some keen-eyed realism to the showbiz schmaltz.

The film's wooziness wouldn't be disastrous if it swept audiences up in the zest of pop creation.

Can simultaneously be enjoyed as a fun summer musical set in a bygone era and a Gatsby-style American tragedy about the impossibility of escaping the past.

What saves it are those nostalgic, soaring doo-wop numbers ... and Eastwood's measured doses of directorial playfulness, such as when the actors cheekily break the fourth wall and talk directly to the audience, as they did on Broadway.

Engagingly lively, if not always graceful, and often surprisingly comic.

Eastwood, as always, has simply done things his own way, and the result is a leisurely old-school entertainment with a bit more edge than you may be expecting.

You can almost smell the meatballs Frankie's mother cooks for dinner.

Everybody loves a rags-to-riches story. The joyous new musical "Jersey Boys" doubles down on that favorite theme.

Why so cheerless, bordering on grim? Was Mr. Eastwood, a lover of music and a champion of musicians, so seduced by the bleaker aspects of the back story that he neglected the production's grace notes?

Eastwood animates the cliches by playing them for real, but he's still steering the movie to a foregone conclusion.

A flat-footed Italian-American theme park ride that's as far from rock 'n' roll as Newark is from Times Square.

Despite all that crummy doo-wop, it's a universal, American "anyone can make it" success story that has uplifting appeal onstage, and in Mr. Eastwood's capable hands, the joy spreads like apple butter.

Clint Eastwood's version of the buoyant Broadway musical doesn't hit the same high notes, but it's a must-see for fans of Valli and the early pop era.

The catchy hits by The Four Seasons are indelible, but Jersey Boys, the drab movie based on the Broadway musical about those tunes, is sadly forgettable.

Why is the Jersey Boys film a turgid botch?

This isn't the movie it should have been, but it serves its purpose as a souvenir of the stage show.

"Jersey Boys" is a strange movie, and it's a Clint Eastwood enterprise, both reasons to see it.

The film entertainingly recreates an acclaimed stage show that you can now see for the price of a multiplex ticket rather than a Broadway one.

The worst thing about this multifaceted failure is the two-time Oscar winner behind the camera. Where there ought to be a director, there's nothing but an empty chair.

Young's bland Valli never really grabs us the way he should. But when Piazza smolders and glowers as Tommy, the group's fiery wild card, we can't take our eyes off of him.

For those that love the Four Seasons' music but haven't made it to the play, you can put your fear of missing out to rest. This is a much more affordable way to very nearly re-create the experience.

Full of genial showbiz cliches and mobbed-up sweeties, it's an easy movie to take.

Always likable and often great fun, but it's an uneasy mix of stage and screen. It trips, fairly often, but never falls.

Eastwood's integrity puts the movie in a double bind; he wholly commits to an underdeveloped drama that was designed only to set up extended musical numbers, and, in the process, makes the songs seem intrusive and padded.

We come away with a feeling for pop stardom as seen from the inside, the traveling and performing, the dealing with the same people all day and the worrying about the business end.

Jersey Boys tells a familiar story, yes -- but rarely told this well and with this much heart and soul.

"Jersey Boys" is a good movie, and the performances are first-rate.

Sure. We'll stay, just a little bit longer.

Defiantly dull

Eastwood may never show us his boys discovering themselves under that street lamp, but he gives us a clutch of moments worth treasuring - and mostly without overdoing it.

A dash of showbiz pizzazz has been lost but some welcome emotional depth has been gained in the big-screen version of the still-thriving theatrical smash Jersey Boys.

The relative dearth of prominent musical performances turns what could have been a dancing-in-the-aisles romp into a bit of a slog.

It works in the hits, and it casts singers who make those hits sound virtually identical to the originals. What the movie doesn't do is answer the question, "Why did I just spend 134 minutes watching the Frankie Valli episode of 'Behind the Music'?"

A deeply satisfying pop biopic whose subject's bifurcated creative life lends itself to an unconventional structure.

It lurches between two decades and two actors, with no reliable center.

A wonderfully innervating cure for the common musical biopic ...

The title refers to Mia's fraught decision-should she cling to existence or just give up?-and, well before the end, even loyal viewers will be begging her to hurry up and choose.

Documentarian R.J. Cutler, in his feature debut, joins Moretz in delivering this pap as if it meant something. Cue eye rolling.

For a drama pretty much aimed at 12-year-old girls, this is less superficial than you'd expect.

The heroine lies in the coma, but the audience may feel brain-dead by the end of If I Stay.

You want these people to have real challenges and messiness. But their lives don't quite feel lived in; they feel exemplary.

[Moretz's] grounded, naturalistic presence goes a long way toward making mushy material palatable.

If I Stay is true to principle in one significant regard: It makes no concessions to anyone outside its teenage female cohort.

Moretz has a nicely calibrated energy and intensity, and the teen romance ups-and-downs of Mia and Adam's relationship - are they really soul mates, or will he drop her when the right groupie shambles along? - feel authentically OMG-ish.

Plays like a high school version of 'Ghost.'

"If I Stay" shuttles between lachrymose developments at the hospital and a series of flashbacks that detail the Mia-Adam relationship. Not surprisingly, the romance is where you want to be.

What works for readers, left free to produce their own versions of fantasy devices, can be gigglesome for audiences confronted with a film's prefab literalism.

A cleanly directed, credibly acted machine for the production of tears.

This overlong adaptation of Gayle Forman's popular young adult novel manages to make the usually effervescent Moretz seem dull.

Maybe on the page this all seems less ridiculous.

If you're not in tears by this movie's end, it probably wasn't intended for you anyway.

It's a tough balancing act melding dewy-eyed teen romance with family tragedy, and harder still to weave in rousing rock performances and gorgeous classical music. If I Stay ambitiously tries to fuse it all and occasionally succeeds.

"If I Stay" just barely makes the B honor roll, despite a fine job by dark-indie darling Chloe Grace Moretz in her mainstream breakout performance.

The settings and supporting roles suggest that "If I Stay" started out as someone's passion project, but the final product only requires its star to sleepwalk through buckets of schlock.

Almost everything in the film feels either forced or false, so the tears aren't earned.

There are even shades of Bergman in the existential premise, but director J.R. Cutler is more interested in the young leads' cookie-cutter romance, and the clunky nonlinear plot precludes any sort of comprehensive narrative.

Moretz is an appealing young woman whose star is rising. She'll probably have an exceptional career, but "If I Stay" won't be a highlight.

I went through half a pack of Kleenex watching "If I Stay." But know this: those tears are no more honestly earned than if director R.J. Cutler had merely been chopping onions in front of me.

Cutler is selling a certain kind of product with "If I Stay," but he sells it honestly and well.

The acting is solid across the breadth of the cast, with all the actors fitting nicely into their roles. Mortez is especially good; she brings humanity and believability to Mia.

You may wonder how Moretz landed in the Cartoonistan of this dewy melodrama, and chalk it up to alien abduction. Yet she almost convinces you, solely on the power of her commitment.

There's no question that you'll cry at some point during this film. Beautiful young people on the brink of death will do that.

A real turducken of a teen movie, If I Stay stuffs a tale of budding musicianship into a banal romance and then stuffs that combination into a maudlin supernatural melodrama.

Ultimately, "If I Stay" is a just barely average teen weepie, enlivened by some pretty cello music but never coming to life.

Compared to another recent teen weepie, "The Fault in Our Stars," this one comes up wanting.

"If I Stay" only left me nearly comatose - and very eager to walk into the white light of the lobby.

There's something morbidly gratifying about the supercalifragilistically supernatural elements of If I Stay, even if the movie isn't ultimately as effective as it could be.

[Moretz is] a rapidly rising star and the role is her first full-fledged romantic lead. But a few minutes into the drippy teen love-and-death story, you'll likely wish she hadn't.

While many of the big moments of If I Stay can be easily dismissed, it's the little ones that elevate the film to at least mixed-bag status.

The overall execution is so pedestrian that it's possible to feel more moved by the filmmakers' good intentions than by the actual emotional content onscreen.



















Eddie and the Cruisers is a mish-mash of a film, combining elements of the ongoing nostalgia for rock music of previous decades with an unworkable and laughable mystery plotline.

Low key and, despite the music, rather likeable.

Eddie and the Cruisers is all buildup and no payoff.

Eddie and the Cruisers is vivid, full of conviction and more than a little foolish at times.

It compares to that other "legitimate" musical smash of recent vintage, Chicago. It just doesn't have the life or fun of Chicago.

The opening rump-shaking immediately sets the tone: Dreamgirls pulses with sheer exuberance. When was the last time a musical, much less a huge Hollywood production, felt this alive?

It reserves singing and dancing for the stage until Jamie Foxx just randomly bursts into verse while strolling down the street. Dreamgirls wants to be Effie but ends up as Deena: thin, smooth, unburdened by a personality.

Watching Dreamgirls on the big screen feels like an event somehow. Maybe it's the conviction and passion that the actors bring to their roles.

Dreamgirls is the entire musical package, a triumph of old school on-screen glamour, and we wouldn't want it any other way.

Elegiac, filthy-minded, unsparing, and as deeply moving as you'd expect from any de facto story of Peter O'Toole's life.

It's a product that promises magic, and yet gives us nothing to live on.

...An uneven success.

With a star turn like [Jennifer Hudson's] at its center, a movie doesn't need too much more, but Dreamgirls has plenty to go around.

Dreamgirls wraps you up in its music, like a velvet coat of sound, and when it's over you feel warmed, happy and thoroughly entertained.

Flaws and all, Dreamgirls is certainly a lot more watchable than other recent adaptations of Broadway musicals like Rent, The Producers and The Phantom of the Opera.

This glitzy, infectious and unusually heartfelt musical doesn't always hang together as a satisfying narrative -- too many characters compete for too little screen time -- but its pleasures are numerous enough to override its flaws.

Joy is defined as Dreamgirls, an ecstatic dose of pure top-down Motown tight-harmony effervescence that takes a hit Broadway musical about a Chicago girl group and turns it, miraculously, into a Hollywood delight.

It's fun. It's candy. With colorful costumes, often effervescent tunes (the original production's Henry Krieger wrote four new ones), it's a champagne cocktail.

Dreamgirls sizzles most of the time, giving us a slightly Broadway-ized look at an important part of the history of American pop music.

Any director hoping to capture racism, catfights, and urban decay with music this square, and filmmaking this haphazard, is a fool.

Dreamgirls is like a really fabulous party. The next morning, you don't remember anything special that happened, but you know you had a blast.

Bill Condon's screen adaptation of the 1981 Broadway sensation is, if possible, as dazzling and energizing as its source.

If what you value in a movie musical is visual extravagance and a show-stopping performance or two, Dreamgirls will leave you with a feeling of absurd, unreasoning happiness.

How many of us have a chance to visit Broadway and see an A-quality show? That's the experience with Dreamgirls, and there's something to be said for it.

Dreamgirls may come up short in terms of originality and killer songs, but it wears its big, drippy camp heart on its sleeve.

This is the first important movie musical in decades about African-Americans and the first to deal with the revolution in civil rights and the mainstream success of black pop music.

Dreamgirls is a knockout, no two ways about it, a sizzling adaptation of the successful Broadway musical that is bound to leave audiences howling with pleasure.

Condon has gotten terrific performances from almost everyone here. Knowles lives up to the promise she's shown in her earlier big-screen warm-ups. And Hudson proves to be as good in her dramatic scenes as she is in the musical ones.

Full of strong performances and outsize musical energy, Dreamgirls has all the makings of a big-time holiday hit, and it deserves to become one.

As much as I appreciated the performances from the terrifically talented cast -- as much as I liked Dreamgirls -- I didn't love it. Maybe it was just a little too slick and over the top for its own good.

An "American Idol" rejectee with no prior screen experience, [Jennifer Hudson's] presence in this film is itself the stuff that musical dreams are made of.

Condon knew what he wanted, and got it: a smooth, shiny showbiz fable.

Fulfills the ecstatic promise inherent in all musicals -- that life can be dissolved into song and dance -- but it does so without relinquishing the toughest estimate of how money and power work in the real world that song and dance leave behind.

[Director] Condon paints with such broad, familiar strokes that the film feels generic; in setting out to tell everyone's story, Condon ends up telling no one's.

I've been going to the movies a long time. This is the first time I ever saw people sit during the closing credits, just so they could cheer when a performer's name came up.

Film director Bill Condon keeps that story on track, while cramming the screen with wonderful visual touches.

Jennifer Hudson is the heart and soul of Dreamgirls. When she's on the screen, the movie shines. When she's not, the whole endeavor suffers.

When Jennifer Hudson sings, all's right with the world.

Audiences who go to Dreamgirls will have a good time, but theyll be going for old times sake rather than to encounter anything vital or new.

[Dreamgirls proves] again that transforming a hit Broadway musical into an equally spectacular movie is one of the most confounding tricks in show business.

The corn may be as high as Beyonce Knowles' gravity-defying wigs, but you'll be so carried away by the penny-arcade clamor of light, rhythm and song, you really won't care.

With a star turn like that at its center, a movie doesn't need too much more, but Dreamgirls has plenty to go around. Its sense of showmanship is overflowing.

Dreamgirls is the rare movie musical with real rapture in it.

I have to admit that the film's spectacular performances and production values will blow you away much of the time -- and for that, Mr. Condon and his many colleagues deserve to be commended.

Flashy, flamboyant and ferocious, Dreamgirls is just plain socko!

Dreamgirls is a wonderful entertainment: a musical that, while not skimping on the music, delivers a multi-layered storyline featuring complex characters.

This is Hudson's movie all the way.

It's great to see a movie musical with a smart sense of the genre.

There's so much excitement around the opening of Dreamgirls... that I know I'm going to bring down the room by saying I think it's just okay. Well, Jennifer Hudson is more than okay.

My guess is that fans of the musical will love it. But it's a little short on heart and soul, and it is deeply conventional.

When she sings 'And I Am Telling You I'm Not Going' -- one of the most heartfelt cries of pain ever written for a musical -- Hudson inscribes her name on an Oscar.

The movie belongs to Hudson as the proud, self-destructive Effie. When she's center stage, Dreamgirls transports you to movie musical heaven.

A musical with energy and talent to burn but missing its heart.

Stays true to the source material while standing on its own as a fully reimagined movie.

Saturday Night Fever is wonderfully honest and completely accurate when it comes to depicting that stagnant environment that keeps young people like Tony pinned down.



A small, solid film, made with craft if not resonance.

Travolta's characterization, given the script and directorial demands, is okay. It will please the already-committed; but it won't win him any new fans.

In the end, the real killer is the movie's abject sincerity.

Mr. Travolta is deft and vibrant, and he never condescends to the character, not even in a scene that has Tony and Stephanie arguing about whose Romeo and Juliet it is, Zeffirelli's or Shakespeare's.

There's a lot in the movie that's sad and painful, but after a few years what you remember is John Travolta on the dance floor in that classic white disco suit, and the Bee Gees on the soundtrack.









The Funk Brothers seem to have hardly missed a beat.

There have been better documentaries to come out this year, but none can touch this one for unadulterated pleasure.

I promise, you'll never listen to a Motown classic in the same way ever again.

The documentary stumbles where it could have soared.

Try as you might to resist, if you've got a place in your heart for Smokey Robinson, this movie will worm its way there.

You may not end up dancing in the street, but don't be surprised if you cut a step or two in the parking lot.

The movie lets us realize this Sound, still so alive and vibrant today, was created by flesh-and-blood people, each of whom has a compelling story to tell.

A triumphant documentary.

The sheer joy and pride they took in their work -- and in each other -- shines through every frame.

It's a blast!

The Motown Sound was, quite simply, their sound.

A great story and great music, right down to the final credits.

When the old guys sit around and tell their stories, Standing in the Shadows of Motown catches magic on the screen -- a behind-the-curtain peek at some of the world's best-loved music, straight from the cats who made it happen.

After watching it, you can only love the players it brings to the fore for the gifted but no-nonsense human beings they are and for the still-inestimable contribution they have made to our shared history.

Standing in the Shadows of Motown is one hell of a party, and it doesn't let anything get in the way of that.

Gives credit where credit's due.

A soaring cinematic love letter.

If there is any doubt about the Funk Brothers' key contributions to the Motown sound, it's dispelled when these aging musicians take the stage with contemporary performers who re-create the classics.

Told in scattered fashion, the movie only intermittently lives up to the stories and faces and music of the men who are its subject.

This salute to the literally unsung and underrecognized studio heroes of Motown is so good because it is one of those rare documentaries that combine information with smashing entertainment.

Gives the Funk Brothers their due and more, mostly through wonderfully juicy anecdotes.

Ain't no mountain high enough to keep the Funk Brothers from getting to you.

The film's energy is primarily due to the rich storytelling skills of the musicians, who trot out anecdotes and memories filled with humor and wry philosophizing.

Moving and heartfelt documentary about the overlooked heart of the Motown Sound.

Much of the movie's value is to document these particular players making beautiful music.

It's a revelatory aural journey that gets you to hear something you've always known without quite realizing it: that the magic of the Motown sound was, quite literally, its sound, which the Funk Brothers created.

Justman's affectionate doc provides the pleasure of hearing one classic pop hook after another performed by a still tight unit, as well as the spectacle of veteran sidemen sitting around talking music.

It's a glorious groove that leaves you wanting more.

The film truly does rescue [the Funk Brothers] from Motown's shadows. It's about time.

The film retains a huge nostalgic kick, thanks in large part to Aykroyd and Belushi's easy rapport, a smattering of daft, shaggy humour and some truly iconic musical sequences.

A demolition symphony that works with the cold efficiency of a Moog synthesizer gone sadistic.

Given all the chaos, director and, with Aykroyd, cowriter, John Landis manages to keep things reasonably controlled and in a straight line.

The humor is predicated on underplaying in overscaled situations, which is sporadically funny in a Keaton-esque way but soon sputters out through sheer, uninspired repetition.

There's even room, in the midst of the carnage and mayhem, for a surprising amount of grace, humor, and whimsy.

This essentially modest movie is reported to have cost about $30 million, and what did all that money buy? Scores of car crashes. Too many extras. Overstaged dance numbers. And a hollowness that certainly didn't come cheap.

Chicago is sexy, sordid and sensational, the Windy City's biggest hit since the St. Valentine's Day Massacre.

I'm ready to say Chicago is the only movie of a Broadway musical I've seen that's better than the show it's based on.

As sentimental as a plywood casket, Chicago has satirical bite and a mean wit that somehow never obscures its characters' unlikely likability.

With performers as good as these and the freshness of Bill Condon's screenplay and Marshall's direction, there's really very little wrong with Chicago. What it lacks is something intangible -- heat.

Rob Marshall's screen version of the near-venerable show looks great, in its razzly-dazzly neo-Fosse way, and sounds good, especially when Renee Zellweger's gorgeous Roxie Hart is singing her heart out.

The net effect of the incessant dazzle is depressing.

The song-and-dance numbers are calisthenic but unspectacular, with too much fast cutting, and the tone throughout is harmlessly facetious.

The film has punch, but it never really conveys the delicious, redeeming sense that life can be lived on the hoof.

Chicago has so much razzle-dazzle that viewers may end up both raised and dazed. It's remorselessly inventive, trying anything fast and sassy to keep you watching.

This Oscar-laden movie rendition, directed by Rob Marshall, suffers from the kind of ants-in-your-pants MTV editing that prevents you from simply watching and enjoying the musical numbers.

Marshall betrays the dancing by never letting us see it properly.

For sheer, audacious musical entertainment it tops last year's Moulin Rouge, and ranks among the greatest adapted Broadway shows ever.

This film adaptation, written by Bill Condon, is somewhat kinder and gentler than the stage versions that preceded it.

Chicago is, in many ways, an admirable achievement.

Renee Zellweger and Catherine Zeta-Jones put on quite a show in Rob Marshall's dazzling cinematic rethinking of the 1975 Kander and Ebb musical directed by Bob Fosse.

Leggy Zeta-Jones is so hot in the 'All That Jazz' number, she's flammable. And Zellweger defines delicious.

It prances. It struts. It kicks up its heels. It bumps and grinds and gyrates and works up a sweat and has a cigarette afterwards.

By the end of Chicago, just about everyone in it has razzle-dazzled someone, and so has the movie, which leaves you thrilled at how good it feels to see life, death, and girl power turned, once again, into a cabaret.

Rob Marshall's film of Chicago isn't just the most explosively entertaining movie musical in a couple of decades. It's going to be the most influential.

With few respites, Marshall keeps the energy humming, and his edits, unlike those in Moulin Rouge, are crisp and purposeful without overdoing it.

Overall, Chicago earns that highest of praises -- I can't wait to see it again.

Chicago is everything a musical is supposed to be, with good songs sung by people who sing well, and with lots of sexy dances featuring women who are gorgeous and men who don't get in the way.

In Marshall's virtuoso hands, this movie version of the 1975 Bob Fosse Broadway musical based on the 1942 Ginger Rogers movie Roxie Hart based on the 1926 play Chicago, the rhinestones shimmer like diamonds and brass glows like solid gold.

This Chicago has hugely imaginative and successful casting to its great credit, as well as one terrific score and attitude to spare.

Much more than one of the best movies of the year, Chicago is destined to become the most popular screen adaptation of a stage musical since Grease.

Big, brassy fun.

Not since the 1972 Cabaret has there been a movie musical this stirring, intelligent and exciting.

This Chicago doesn't toddle, it swings, it Lindy Hops, it Charlestons the night away, and probably all your woes along with it.

Chicago is my kind of movie musical.

Chicago is sophisticated, brash, sardonic, completely joyful in its execution.

Marshall deserves credit for taking what threatened to be a worn-out bit of Broadway entertainment and turning it into an evening's worth of fun.

Marshall has created a glitzy, seductive, high-energy movie that feels more like a filmed play than a play made into a film.

Chicago improves upon the long-running Broadway show by Kander and Ebb in many ways.

It's part of the basic Zeta-Jones bio that she can really sing, and, wow, can she.

The fabulous bones of this oft-told tale have been picked over so often that there's no flesh left on them. But Mr. Marshall and the screenwriter Bill Condon get a terrifically sweet concoction out of this fabled skeleton.

It's Zeta-Jones who keeps you watching from start to finish.

Gives everyone something to shout about.

Big, bright, brassy and almost dangerous to know, Chicago does to sceptics what Al Capone did to stool pigeons.

A piece of stagecraft so thrilling -- and spontaneously combustible -- that audiences at the two screenings of the movie I attended kept erupting into applause.

The best thing you can say about Chicago is that it's a great advertisement for the real, live thing.

With its instantly catchy score, imaginative choreography and rat-tat-tat pacing, Chicago is as weighty as a bag of cotton candy, and just as addictive.

The movie is appealing, thanks to the cleverness of the Kander-Ebb songs and the enthusiasm of the performances, but it lacks any urgency or erotic spark.

It's fun, splashy and entertainingly nasty.

When you leave the theater, you're all jazzed up and ready to go back for another dose of razzle-dazzle.

Zellweger has gone about the business of making her Roxie huggable -- which is as exhausting for us as it is for her.

It's not nearly as rousing as the Broadway revival (then again, it's rare that the cinematic version of a musical comes close to the stage incarnation), but, for those unable or unwilling to see a live production, it represents a sparkling replacement.

The real star of this movie is the score, as in the songs translate well to film, and it's really well directed.

That rare thing: a nutritious hard candy.

A stylish cast and some clever scripting solutions help Chicago make the transition from stage to screen with considerable appeal intact.

Delivers the sexy razzle-dazzle that everyone, especially movie musical fans, has been hoping for.

While Tatum has rough charm, Dewan is more dancer than actress.

Fletcher ably blends ballet and hip-hop, but the filming itself is often clumsy, and Tatum's relentless African American impersonation quickly wears out its welcome.

For a movie about dancing, Step Up is pretty clumsy on its feet.

Step Up may sizzle on the dance floor, but when the dancing stops, the film fizzles.

A lot of movies are derivative. What makes Step Up particularly dispiriting is that it has almost nothing fresh to add.

It's almost as wrong-headed as it is pre-fabricated.

Being an urban dance movie, guns make their appearance, along with every stereotype about hip-hop or the young. Don't believe the hype. Just watch them dance.

The cast is only one of the picture's shortcomings. It has clunky dialogue, a derivative storyline and some hypocrisy.

Step Up is so predictable, with every scene loudly announcing what the next one is going to show, that teens in the audience will take lots of breaks to text each other on their phones.

Step Up barely bothers to build a memorable story. Instead, the movie rests entirely on the well-sculpted shoulders of charismatic leads Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan.

Until the movie stumbles under the weight of its noble intentions and its tediously formulaic story, it delivers a few lively, well-shot dance sequences and some winning moments.

Aside from the dance steps, you've seen it all before.

Dirty Dancing by way of 8 Mile might be the best way to describe Step Up, a likable, predictable musical drama.

It's the storytelling that keeps landing on its keister.

Any guy who sits through this date movie deserves to get to third base at least.

Step Up is about following the teen-dance movie recipe without variations, right up to the big finale. By then, Wake Up would have been a better title.



The cast of mostly unknown actors, who can all really move and sing, are given a story that doesn't make sense and lines that are boring at best and nonsensical at worst.

Step Up sprints over its own soggy foundation of dance movie cliches with the sheer exuberance of its propulsively cut dance sequences.

Alive with infectious rhythm, likable characters, and slick dance moves, Step Up gives cliches a good name.

The well-cast leads are more than appealing enough to encourage a rooting interest. Better still, they obviously do their own dancing, and do it very well.

A rough Baltimore kid, armed only with a killer smile and hip-hop moves, falls for a classically trained dancer in another retread of Footloose.

A formulaic, opposites-attract romance based on whatever music/ dance craze/sport happens to be of interest to young viewers easygoing enough to part with cash without demanding creativity.

Predictable in every respect, the story line mainly serves as an excuse for a series of exuberant dance routines, thankfully choreographed by Fletcher to show off the dancers' entire forms rather than just flashing body parts.

It's hard to feel the fire in Step Up because of how stars Jenna Dewan and Channing Tatum dance: separately. The movie lacks the pairs dance sequences that show how romance moves.

You can sort of see the appeal of Step Up, especially during the dead of summer. It's totally mindless eye candy.

Alas, most of Step Up takes place away from the dance floor.

We don't see any of those footprints that dance teachers arrange on the floor to show students where to step, but we certainly can see the handwriting on the wall in terms of where this movie is going.

While predictability and occasionally wooden dialogue keep this from being a truly good movie, it's certainly entertaining enough to please its intended audience.

Step Up is so predictable, so remarkably so, you might wonder how such a movie got made.

Thin storytelling married to thin bodies of extreme physical grace, this clunky but moderately charming descendant of Saturday Night Fever and Fame covers the usual territory.

... the focus should be on pirouettes, breakdancing, or some giddily ridiculous combination thereof, but the film piles on half a dozen subplots that keep the leads out of pointy shoes.

Step, under the sure hand of director-choreographer Anne Fletcher, quickly discovers its own virtuoso charms.





I can't quite recommend it, but... for a certain demographic why not.

Promises to hit all the urban-dance hallmarks with sledgehammer intensity.



Only any good when people are dancing.

For all of its ragin' dance moves and rebellious talk, is high-spirited and harmless. An MC at one dance contest declares, "This ain't 'High School Musical'!" Oh, but it is.

Stumbl[es] gracelessly from point A to point B and hitting all the expected notes in the process.

Let's wait for a movie where they do get it all right: story, acting and dancing. It'll happen, just not this time.

The story may be old, but these kids act -- and dance -- as though they are telling it for the first time.

Step Up 2 the Streets posits a universe where racial and class differences are minor obstacles to fun and pretends its cliches aren't cliches.

Doesn't measure up.

Dance scenes feel like a diversion, since the story, acting and dialogue are sadly lacking in originality and substance.

Reeks of artificiality and phoney emotion.

Completely predictable.

Providing you're not hip-hop- or cliche-averse, see Step Up 2 the Streets with the right expectations and you'll be pleasantly surprised.

The dance has to be good because the rest of the movie is one long cliche.

As strictly formulaic as its predecessor, this installment generally gets the job done, essentially resembling a longform music video interrupted by a perfunctory plot.

It doesn't skimp on cool pretzel moves.

Step Up 2 features nearly as much dancing as it does dialogue, and that's a good thing, considering the after-school special quality of its obligatory emotional scenes.

Catnaps are an advisable way to survive some of the slow spots. Or, better yet, wait for this to be available on DVD when the fast forward button will turn Step Up 2 into something shorter and more enjoyable.

A finale has the young people all dancing in the rain. Like almost everything else about the movie, it has been done before. But it's still foot-stomping fun.



It's equal parts 'Flashdance,' 'Burlesque' and 'Lambada', all parts ludicrous - but we aren't here for the story any more than we watch Bela Tarr for the salsa numbers.

There's too much color and energy and frenzy in this movie to discount it entirely, but it has a disconcerting tendency to undercut its best notions with some singularly awful moves.

With the most wooden leads of the series to date - an MMA fighter and a "So You Think You Can Dance" alum - the drama between the dancing has never felt more interminable.

"Step Up: You've Seen All This Before" would be more accurate, but Summit Entertainment's marketing department knows that wouldn't help sell tickets.

Delivers plenty of spectacular fancy footwork in what is otherwise a flat-footed fantasy.

While dance purists won't be impressed by the energetic and athletic choreography -- the dancers have clearly learned routines but not necessarily technique -- date-movie audiences will likely want to go out dancing afterward themselves, and that's fun.

The choreography is solid throughout, but director Scott Speer gets in his own way every time, relentlessly shifting camera angles to close-ups and reaction shots when he should be letting us witness the spectacle.

There isn't a franchise around that matches the kids' moves in the Step Up series. We just need a better reason to dance along.

No one goes to a "Step Up" movie for the plot or the romance. Only the dancing matters here.

It seems only fair to start with the one thing that's right with it: It's not dead. It should be, but it's not.

Though the location-specific choreography looks like it could be impressive, the film's frantic cutting style makes it difficult to simply enjoy bodies moving in space.

Will the next "Step Up" tackle the cutting-edge trend of planking?

Contrary to its message, it will not change the world. But the dancing will make you sit up and take notice.

The plot is pure boilerplate, yet the draw of this franchise has always been its fancy footwork, and the movie's stuttering, herky-jerky spectacles of impassioned movement are pretty extraordinary.

Not as cringe-worthy as you would expect from the fourth "Step Up" installment.

Sadly, somewhere between a split and a fist pump, Revolution fell flat, and I found myself wishing for Magic Mike in 3-D.

Despite their infectious energy and some mind-blowing moves, there's a chaotic formlessness to even the best of these set pieces

She's a rich daddy's girl! He's from the wrong side of the tracks! They bridge their socio-economic gap through the power of dance! Rinse, repeat.

[Guzman and McCormick] zero acting experience - and it shows. Same goes for the first-time movie director, Scott Speer, who can't coax even a passable performance from his amateurish cast...

If no one behind the scenes cared enough about the padding around the money sequences to make it original, believable, or interesting, why is there so much of it?

"Step Up: Revolution" is the fourth of the "Step Up" movies, a series of unconnected stories that serve as showcases for the kinds of young stars who sincerely hope they'll soon be in better movies.

More is not necessarily better, even when it comes to hot bodies and smooth dance moves.

Step Up Revolution, the fourth entry in the venerable dance franchise, is a narrative failure but a triumph of sheer spectacle.



Who needs competent acting and writing when there are so many shiny, pretty things flying right at you?

I think it actually honors the art form of dance, but not in a solemn, highbrow way.

Functions less as a story than as a catalog of references meant to interest a young audience: mixed martial arts, parkour, X-games, Red Hook, Chinatown, D.I.Y. filmmaking.

The dance scenes are inventive and pop out in all kinds of strange places.

Though director Jon Chu brings admirable energy and imagination to Step Up 3D's dance extravaganzas, he can't animate shockingly wooden performances or cure stumble-footed dialogue.

The main reason to see Step Up 3D is for the high-energy dancing and innovative camerawork, and on those points it delivers.

Saw 3D looked like the scariest tri-dimensional offering at the movies this year. Until now.

Step Up 3D is as supremely exhilarating and thoroughly terrible as fans of the series might've expected.

The mischievous Sevani remains one to watch, but Vinson and Malambri are as bland as the hackneyed story surrounding them.

An exhilarating summer treat for all ages, Step Up 3D celebrates the transformative power of dance.

Of all the pitfalls potentially awaiting new freshmen at New York University, one I've never heard mentioned is the dance pimp.

Rhythmically, athletically and energetically, Step Up 3D does not disappoint.

The dancing works early and often, rendering the substantial plot holes moot.

Watching this movie in 3-D is very much like sticking one's head in a blender and hitting "pulse.''

While director Jon M. Chu's acrobatic cast proves adept at moonwalks and break-dances -- and even tangos and tap -- not a one displays anything even closely approximating charisma.

It's the same movie as the earlier "gotta dance" over-choreographed crunk-and-breakdance epics. Exactly the same. Well, stripped of any hint of edge or sex appeal.

Some sick moves get even sicker; some become distorted and freakishly distracting.

If only there were more drop kicks and fewer banal lines.

It boasts a generous exuberance and, as entertainment products go, it's surprisingly sweet.

The dance sequences are glittery, percussive explosions of citified youth energy.

A reliable guilty pleasure takes a dramatic step backward but a technological step forward.

Clumsy dramatics aside, this gimmicky sequel delivers on the dance floor.

It's a contemporary movie musical that makes you feel genuinely sky-high.

Natalie Wood, who was made a hit in the Kazan-Inge production of Splendor In the Grass and is the most promising young star of today, gives a fine dramatic performance.

West Side Story is a beautifully-mounted, impressive, emotion-ridden and violent musical which, in its stark approach to a raging social problem and realism of unfoldment, may set a pattern for future musical presentations.

Special mention, though, should go to Boris Leven's neo-expressionist production design and Daniel L Fapp's forceful cinematography: the crooked angles, pointed shadows and great swashes of red all heighten the mood of rabid fury.

Unhappily, the film shares a serious flaw in the essential conception of the show; both are founded on a phony literary analogy and on some potentially vicious pseudo-sociology.

Decent 1961 adaptation of the Bernstein-Robbins musical, if you can handle Richard Beymer and Natalie Wood in the leads.

How does the film -- which won ten Oscars on its 1961 release -- stand up now? Very well indeed.

It is a great movie ... in parts.

The marvel is that the film still works so well.

What they have done with West Side Story in knocking it down and moving it from stage to screen is to reconstruct its fine material into nothing short of a cinema masterpiece.

It still represents a brave and effective fusion of serious and fantasy elements, and offers two and one-half hours of solid entertainment.

